# Thomas Theodore Bowman
## Graduate of Sheffield Scientific School, 1927
Thomas Theodore Bowman was born in 1904 in Fayetteville, NC to Thomas T. Bowman and Sadie Webb Bowman (later Harris). His father died in 1905, and he and his mother moved to Connecticut in 1906. They lived several years in Hartford before coming to New Haven. His mother remarried, to William H. Harris. Bowman graduated from New Haven High School (now Hillhouse) and entered the pre-med program at Yale’s Sheffield Scientific School. While at Yale, he lived with his family at 763 George Street. He graduated from the program in 1927 and went on to receive his medical degree from Howard University in 1931. He lived in Staten Island, New York and was a physician. He died in 1995.

TEST FORMATTING
Does this display properly.

- One
- Two
- Three

### Section 1
Thomas Theodore Bowman was born in 1904 in Fayetteville, NC to Thomas T. Bowman and Sadie Webb Bowman (later Harris). His father died in 1905, and he and his mother moved to Connecticut in 1906. They lived several years in Hartford before coming to New Haven. His mother remarried, to William H. Harris. Bowman graduated from New Haven High School (now Hillhouse) and entered the pre-med program at Yale’s Sheffield Scientific School. While at Yale, he lived with his family at 763 George Street. He graduated from the program in 1927 and went on to receive his medical degree from Howard University in 1931. He lived in Staten Island, New York and was a physician. He died in 1995.

This is a link test [Hillhouse High School](https://www.newhavenmagnetschools.com/index.php/hillhouse-high).

This is some formatting: **bold** *italic*

#### Subsection 1.1
Some more content

### Section 2
This is a test of a section in the biography.

This is a test table:
| Month | Fruit |
| -------- | ------- |
| January | Oranges |
| February | Bananas |
| March | Kiwi |

