# Anne Margaret Cooke Reid 
## Received Ph.D. in Speech-Theater, 1944 

Anne Margaret Cooke was born on October 6, 1907, to William Wilson Cooke and Anne M. Miller in Washington, D.C. Her father, William, was the first Black employee of the Office of the Supervising Architect. On her mother’s side, her grandfather was Thomas Ezekiel Miller, a prominent educator and one of the only African Americans elected to Congress during the Jim Crow Era. While a child, the family moved to Gary, Indiana where her father became the first African American to be a licensed architect. Anne attended high schools in Gary and later attended Oberlin College. She graduated from Oberlin in 1928 and taught English and speech at Spelman College. She took a year’s leave in 1930 to study at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.[^1] 

At Spelman, she headed the Spelman Players, a student theatrical group, but Cooke also helped organize the University Players which included Atlanta University, Morehouse College, and Spelman College. She built upon her earlier collaboration among and with Atlanta University, she helped establish the Atlanta University Summer Theater. The theater was the first Black summer theater in the country. She worked alongside Owen Dodson, another Black Yale graduate, in running the theater program.[^2] 

She soon won a scholarship from the General Education Board that allowed her to attend Yale. She briefly attended Yale School of Drama for a semester in the 1936-1937 school year where she studied methods of play production and acting. She later received a Rosenwald fellowship in 1938 that allowed her to pursue a Ph.D. at Yale. While at Yale, she served as a representative for the Association of American Colleges where she travelled the country and provided lectures. After completing her residence requirements for the degree, Cooke took a position as director of the Communication Center at the Hampton Institute. She continued to run the Atlanta University Summer Theater while studying at Yale. For one of the plays in the summer, she directed the production of Elijah’s Ravens which was a play done by Shirley Graham Du Bois, a fellow Black Yale student.[^3] 

She received her doctorate degree in speech-theater from Yale in 1944. For her dissertation, Cooke wrote on the acting styles of English actors in the eighteenth century. Cooke left Hampton, and with Owen Dodson, taught at Howard University. At Howard, Anne served as the director of dramatics. Together, Cooke and Dodson ran the Howard Players and received acclaim across the world. In 1949, the U.S. Department of State sponsored Cooke and the Howard Players’ tour across Scandinavia for cultural diplomacy. While at Howard, she received a Fulbright award to study theater in Norway at the University of Oslo in 1951.[^4] 

In 1958, she married Ira De Augustine Reid, a prominent Black sociologist and professor at Haverford College. Around the time of her marriage, she left Howard and taught at Haverford and Bryn Mawr in Pennsylvania. After the death of her husband in 1968, she worked at the University of California at Santa Cruz as a senior preceptor and an associate professor. By the 1970s, she taught at the University of Maryland. She was recognized as the “First Lady of Black Theatre” and received the Outstanding Pioneer Award by AUDELCO which recognized her contributions to Black theater. Some of her students included Shauneille Perry, Roxie Roker, Joseph Walker, Zaida Coles, Graham Brown, Ted Shine, Ellis Haizlip, and Toni Morrison.[^5] 

She soon retired in 1985, moving to Washington, D.C., and later White Plains, New York, where she stayed at Sarah R. Neuman Nursing Home. She died on February 13, 1997, at the nursing home.[^6] 

[^1]:“Pioneering Black Architect William Wilson Cooke,” U.S. General Services Administration Blog, https://www.gsa.gov/blog/2021/02/24/pioneering-black-architect-william-wilson-cooke; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/279007920/anna-margaret-reid; “Hon T. E. Miller, Last S.C. Race Congressman, Grandfather of Miss Anne M. Cooke, Passes Away,” Atlanta Daily World, April 13, 1938, 1; Leslye Joy Allen, “The birth of Queen Anne: Re-discovering Anne M. Cooke at Spelman College,” in The Routledge Companion to African American Theatre and Performance (London: Routledge, 2018), 134-135; Bernard L. Peterson, Profiles of African American Stage Performers and Theatre People, 1816-1960, (New York: Greenwood Press, 2001), 86. 

[^2]:“Summer Theater to Open at Atlanta University for Sixth Year June 30: Five Productions to Be Staged by Actors During Five-Week Period; Mystery Play Opening Performance,” The Call, June 23, 1939, 17; “Atlanta U. To Continue Summer School Theater,” The Call, May 31, 1940, 15.  

[^3]:“Higher Degrees Sought by Atlanta U. Teacher,” The Call, September 25, 1936, 8; “Anne M. Cooke, Of Spelman Staff, Lecturing at Mid-West Colleges,” Atlanta Daily World, March 3, 1941, 1; “Anne Cooke Becomes Communications Head at Hampton Institute,” The New York Age, August 21, 1943, 4; “Atlanta U. Presents Shirley Graham Play,” New York Amsterdam Star-News, July 12, 1941, 21.  

[^4]:“Howard U. Offers ‘All My Sons’ First Time in D.C.,” The Washington Post, February 5, 1948, 8; “Mrs. Roosevelt Bids Bon Voyage to Howard U. Players,” New York Herald Tribune, September 1, 1949, 9; “21 Negro Students to Act in Norway: Howard U. Troupe Will Start Series of Ibsen Offerings at Oslo in September,” The New York Times, July 28, 1949; “Three Chosen to Study Overseas,” Atlanta Daily World, September 11, 1951, 2.  

[^5]:“Dr. Reid of Haverford Marries Howard Prof,” Philadelphia Tribune, August 23, 1958, 14; “Yale PhD Enhances UC Santa Cruz Campus,” Oakland Post, February 18, 1971, 14; “Audelco honoring First Lady of Black Theatre, Nov. 18,” New York Amsterdam News, November 16, 1974, B10; “The Audelco winners,” New York Amsterdam News, November 30, 1974, D14. 

[^6]:The Daily Item, February 15, 1997, 6. 

 
