# Ethna Beulah Winston
## Attended Yale Summer School, 1930s

Ethna Beulah Winston was born in Windsor, Connecticut to Peter H. Winston and Eugenia S. Howard Winston. After graduating from Windsor High School in 1925, she attended Miner Normal School in Washington, D.C. She graduated from Miner in 1925 and matriculated at Howard University shortly after. While attending Howard University she was a member of the English Club and Glee Club. She graduated from Howard University with a bachelor’s in education in 1928. After graduation, she taught at Booker Washington High School in Miami, Florida, and later at Union School in Hampton, Virginia.[^1] 

Amidst her work, she frequently attended summer school sessions. At some point in the 1930s, she attended Yale Summer School. She received a master’s from Hartford Theological Seminary in 1939 and a doctorate in education from Columbia University in 1944. Winston worked at various educational institutions as a teacher and administrator. She worked at the Tuskegee Institute, Clark College, Tougaloo College, South Carolina State College, Elizabeth City State College, and Howard University. In 1967, she worked at Calvin Coolidge High School in Washington, D.C., before retiring in the 1970s.[^2] 

Throughout her life, she was active in the Women’s International Religious Fellowship, the National Council of Negro Women, and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority. In 1978, she retired and spent the remainder of her life in Washington. She died on November 9, 1993, and was buried in Palisade Cemetery in Windsor.[^3] 

Image citation: Ethna Beulah Winston, Howard University Yearbooks, *The Bison*, 1928, Howard University Archives, Moorland-Springarn Research Center, Washington, D.C. https://msrc.howard.edu/

[^1]:*Who’s Who In Colored America: A Biographical Dictionary of Notable Living Persons of African Descent in America* (Brooklyn: Thomas Yenser, 1942), 578; *The Bison*: 1928 (Washington, D.C: Howard University, 1928), 53; Windsor Historical Society, “Our Mrs. Bethune: Dr. Ethna Beulah Winston, 1903 – 1933,” https://windsorhistoricalsociety.org/our-mrs-bethune-dr-ethna-beulah-winston/.  

[^2]:*Directory of American Scholars: A Biographical Directory*, vol. 2, English, Speech and Drama (New York: R. R. Bowker Company, 1969), 591.  

[^3]:“Obituaries,” *The Washington Post*, November 12, 1993, D5; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/35260107/ethna-beulah-winston. 
