# Viola Blanche Goin Palmer
## Attended Yale School of Nursing, 1933-1935

Viola Blanche Goin was born on August 6, 1912, to Edward Franklin Goin and Viola White Goin. Viola Blanche came from a family that had long held an affiliation with Yale University. Her father received a masters degree from the Yale Graduate School, her mother attended English classes in the Yale Graduate School, and her brother, Edward Harold Goin, graduated from Yale College. She lived at 573 Orchard Street and attended Dixwell Avenue Congregational Church where her father served as minister. She was also a member of New Haven’s Family Welfare Society. Viola attended Dwight Public School and Augusta Lewis Troup Junior High School before graduating from the New Haven Hillhouse High School in 1929. She attended Oberlin College, her parents’ alma mater.[^1] 

She transferred from Oberlin College to Sorbonne University in Paris, France to study French for a year. In Paris, she lived with her cousin. Upon returning to the United States, she studied at the University of Michigan for the 1932-1933 school year. In 1933, she served as a charter member of the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority at the school. That year, she also returned home to New Haven and was admitted to the Yale School of Nursing. During the summer, she was a teacher at the Dixwell Community House.[^2] 

While a student, Goin wrote a letter to W.E.B. Du Bois to inform him that she was the first Black student to attend the Yale School of Nursing and requested more information regarding Black hospitals and nursing schools for her research.[^3]  

Goin left the Yale School of Nursing in 1935. A record of withdrawals lists “health” as the reason for her departure from Yale. [^4] However, later records suggest that the School had been reluctant to admit a Black student and she encountered difficulties in her program due to racism. 

In 1941, when the School of Nursing was challenged for its “unwritten policy” against admitting Black students [^5], Dean Effie J. Taylor wrote to President Charles Seymour: 

>You may recall that in 1933 we admitted a colored student resident in New Haven. Much pressure was brought to bear upon [School of Nursing Dean] Miss Goodrich to admit the student, and after many conferences and presenting all the possible barriers to the student herself and to her family, she was admitted, but after a year in the School it was necessary to ask her to resign. The experience was an unhappy one and we felt in consequence that it would be undesirable to repeat the experiment. […] [T]he young woman who entered the school in 1933 lived at home throughout the preclinical period, and the students had an opportunity to become accustomed to her before she came into residence. [^6] 

President Seymour also referred to this student in a letter to Rev. Anson Phelps Stokes, saying that “the difficulties that resulted from her contacts with patients in the hospital and in the general life of the School were such that she was compelled to resign.” [^7]   

It seems likely that this unnamed student was Viola Goin. In related letters, Seymour and Taylor say the School of Nursing will not admit Black students, citing difficulties posed by “circumstances as they exist in the hospital,”  “bring[ing] colored students into this School with our crowded living conditions,” and providing for “such students to be given affiliations.” [^8] The first Black student graduated from the Yale School of Nursing in 1946, as part of the wartime Cadet Nurse Corps program.

After leaving Yale, Goin re-enrolled at the University of Michigan and completed a bachelor’s degree in 1936. She was elected to Phi Kappa Phi academic and professional society. Upon graduation, she briefly served as a substitute instructor at Virginia State College. According to Viola’s Yale alumni file, she applied to the Yale Graduate School in 1936 but instead continued at the University of Michigan, receiving a masters degree in 1937. In 1938, Viola won a Rosenwald Fellowship to continue studying bacteriology at the University of Michigan. She married Edward Nelson Palmer in the same year. Edward was a fellow University of Michigan student and recipient of the Rosenwald Fellowship Award. The couple was married at Dixwell Avenue Congregational Church with her father officiating the ceremony.[^9] 

In 1949, she worked at Hampton University as a part-time assistant professor of biology, and by 1953, became an associate professor of biology. She took leave in 1960 after securing a science faculty fellowship from the National Science Foundation to study at the University of Connecticut in biology and serology. In 1956, Edward N. Palmer died. Viola later remarried Collis Huntington Davis, an administrator at Hampton Institute, in 1960 in New Haven. They divorced in 1962. She retired from teaching at Hampton in 1978 and spent her retirement at Ann Arbor, Michigan. Viola was affiliated with St. Thomas Catholic Church and the NAACP in Ann Arbor. She died on March 13, 1991, and is buried at the Hampton University Cemetery.[^10] 

Image citation: Hillhouse High School yearbook, 1929, New Haven Free Public Library Local History Room

[^1]:Yale University, Alumni Records Office, Collection Number RU 830, Series 7, Box 1120; “Our Children in the Freshman Class,” The Oberlin Alumni Magazine 26, no. 3 (Dec. 1929).   

[^2]:“Recent Arrivals in Paris,” The Birmingham Reporter, October 17, 1931, 4.; Yale University, Alumni Records Office, Collection Number RU 830, Series 7, Box 1120; “Our Children in the Freshman Class,” The Oberlin Alumni Magazine 26, no. 3 (Dec. 1929).   

[^3]:Goin, Viola B. Letter from Viola B. Goin to The Crisis, October 16, 1933. W. E. B. Du Bois Papers (MS 312). Special Collections and University Archives, University of Massachusetts Amherst Libraries, http://credo.library.umass.edu/view/full/mums312-b065-i428 

[^4]: Record of student withdrawals, 1935, Records of the School of Nursing, Yale University (RU 205), Box 287, Folder 43, Manuscripts and Archives, Yale University Library. 

[^5]: Letter from Effie Taylor to Mabel Staupers, 18 April 1941, from the Charles Seymour, President of Yale University, Records (RU 23). Box: 117, Folder 999: "Negro students: problem regarding, 1941-1946", Manuscripts and Archives, Yale University Library. 

[^6]: Letter from Effie Taylor to Charles Seymour, from the Charles Seymour, President of Yale University, Records (RU 23). Box: 117, Folder 999: "Negro students: problem regarding, 1941-1946", Manuscripts and Archives, Yale University Library. 

[^7]: Letter from Charles Seymour to Anson Phelps Stokes, 8 May 1941, from the Charles Seymour, President of Yale University, Records (RU 23). Box: 117, Folder 999: "Negro students: problem regarding, 1941-1946", Manuscripts and Archives, Yale University Library. 

[^8]: Letter from Charles Seymour to Anson Phelps Stokes, 8 May 1941, and Letter from Effie Taylor to Charles Seymour, 9 August 1941, from the Charles Seymour, President of Yale University, Records (RU 23). Box: 117, Folder 999: "Negro students: problem regarding, 1941-1946", Manuscripts and Archives, Yale University Library. 

[^9]:“34 Receive Rosenwald Fellowship Awards For 1938,” The Informer, May 4, 1938, 1; “Miss Viola Goin Weds,” Afro-American, June 11, 1938, 9.  

[^10]:“Hampton Institute Announces Natural Sciences Appointments,” Atlanta Daily World, September 17, 1949, 1; “Hampton Professor Gets Fellowship For Science,” New Journal and Guide, February 6, 1960, 12; Virginia Department of Health. Virginia Divorce Records, 1918–2014. Certificate no. 1962004820. Richmond, VA; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/14231171/viola-blanche-palmer; “Obituary,” Ann Arbor News, March 14, 1991.   


