# Frederick Douglass Bonner
## Graduate of Yale College, 1901
Frederick Douglass Bonner was born in New Haven in 1878 to Willis M. Bonner, a prominent Connecticut Republican politician, and Elizabeth Young Bonner. He was a graduate of New Haven High School (now Hillhouse High School). His brother, Robert Bonner, graduated from the Yale School of Art in 1896. In 1897, Frederick Bonner married Charlotte Drucilla Stokes. He graduated with a bachelor's degree from Yale College in 1901. The following year he and his wife moved to Subic, Philippines, when he was appointed by the Philippine Commission to be an educator there. Charlotte Bonner was also an educator and taught in the same school. The couple had four children.

According to the *Springfield Republican* in 1902:
>The best school in the Phillippine Islands is taught by a negro graduate of Yale, according to Superintendent Atkinson’s judgment, as quoted by Captain Lowe, of New York City, who is stationed at Subi[c]. Frederick Douglass Bonner had a high standing in his class, and his school in Subi[c] not only reflects his ability, but the acceptance given the man because of his color. Captain Lowe says that “a colored teacher with an American college education is found to meet with great success in the islands.” Mr. Bonner writes interesting letters to his folks in New York, telling of his 120 pupils…he has also a normal school class evenings, and twice a week has visits from the chief native dignitaries who want to learn English.

In addition to his role as a school administrator and educator, Bonner served as postmaster for several towns in the area. The family returned to the United States around 1917 and lived in Massachusetts. Bonner worked as an accountant. It is not yet known when he died; he was listed in the 1950 federal census. His son, Frederick Willis Bonner, graduated from Yale College in 1929. 
