# Rachel Roberta Moore Myrick
## Graduate of Yale School of Music, 1934
Rachel Roberta Moore was born in 1912 to John and Edith Moore who lived in Hartford, Connecticut. According to the 1930 census, John was working as a janitor at an automobile factory, and Edith worked at the Hartford Electric Light Company.[^1]

Moore attended Hartford Public High School, graduating in 1931, and then attended the Yale School of Music. During her time at Yale, she won a “second entrance prize in piano-playing” and a scholarship of $100.[^2] Upon graduating in 1934, she served as organist for several AME Zion churches and was a private piano tutor.[^3]   

In 1946, she married Lafayette Myrick, a veteran and a postman.[^4] She later married Frank P. Richardson in 1963.[^5] Throughout her life, she served as an organist for several different churches in Hartford, Manchester, and Glastonbury. She also helped found the Connecticut State Music Teachers Association, Hartford Chapter, and the National Guild of Piano Teachers. She died in 2013 at the age of 101 in Hartford.[^6]  

[^1]: United States Census, 1930, FamilySearch, Entry for John R. Moore and Edith D. Moore, 1930. 
[^2]: “R. G. Barrow, 1932, Wins Organ Competition Prize,” *Yale Daily News*, June 1, 1932. 
[^3]:  “Graduated by Yale School of Music,” *Hartford Courant*, June 3, 1934.
[^4]: “Lafayette Myrick, Miss Moore Wed,” *Afro-American*, May 11, 1946; “Myrick, Lafayette,” *Hartford Courant*, April 30, 1997.
[^5]: Connecticut Marriage Index, 1959-2001, FamilySearch), Frank P Richardson and Racha R Myrick, 19 Jan 1963; from Connecticut, Marriage Index, 1959-2001, database, Ancestry; citing Bridgeport,  Fairfield, Connecticut, United States, Connecticut Department of Public Health, Hartford. 
[^6]:“Richardson, Rachel Moore,” *Hartford Courant*, December 29, 2013.

Image citation: Hartford Public High School yearbook, 1931 (Accessed via Connecticut Digital Archive)
