# Frederick Wilson Wells
## Attended Yale Law School, 1921-1922

Born in Union City, Tennessee in 1896, Frederick Wilson Wells studied at Yale Law School from 1921 to 1922. He previously attended Wilberforce University and graduated from the Ohio State University in 1919 before attending Yale. In 1924, he enrolled in Columbia University Law School and moved into the Furnald Hall dormitory. In spring 1924, a group of white students discovered Wells was living in the dormitory and pressured him to leave on account of his race, issuing petitions and reaching out to newspapers about his residence. On April 3, 1924, white supremacists believed to be associated with the Ku Klux Klan burned a cross on the Columbia campus on the quad near Wells’ dormitory. He received death threats, and a bomb squad was assigned to monitor the building. The dean of the law school as well as students and others supported Wells and urged him to remain in the dorm. The event was widely covered in the national news; more recently, it was included in the Columbia and slavery research project. At the end of the term, Wells transferred to Cornell University. The Frederick W. Wells papers at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, New York Public Library, document this period. 

In 1927, Wells traveled to Los Angeles to conduct research into Black migrants moving to California from the South. According to the *Los Angeles Times*, his research was for a Ph.D. in sociology at Yale, but other details about this project or his enrollment are not yet known.  

Wells served as Industrial Secretary for the Urban League in California and worked in the housing field. From 1928 to 1940, he conducted research on the cities of Albany, Rochester, Buffalo, Syracuse, Ithaca, and Schenectady for the Association of Negro State Builders, New York. In 1941, he joined the public relations staff of the United Service Organizations. He was also involved in the development of public housing projects in New York City. He died in 1979.

Image citation: _New Pittsburgh Courier_, 12 April 1924
