# William Washington Nolen
## Attended Yale Law School 1906-1907

William Washington Nolen was born in Houston, Mississippi to Wesley Nolen and Georgia Smith on September 9, 1881. His uncle on his mom’s side was Sidney Albert Smith, who attended Yale College. The family later moved to Nashville, Tennessee. Nolen received his early education at the Tuskegee Institute.[^1] 

He attended Walden University in Nashville, graduating from Walden University’s law department in 1903 with a bachelor of laws. He moved to Pittsburgh where he studied German and Hebrew at Carnegie Tech. He was also active in the community, overseeing an oratorical contest at the Trinity AME Church. In 1906, he began attending Yale Law School and was enrolled as a second-year law student.  He was a member of the Kent Club where he judged a debate among Yale law students regarding the expulsion of Senator Reed Smoot. He would only attend Yale Law School for the 1906-1907 school year. After leaving Yale, Nolen spent some time in New York where he was an active member of the Black intellectual scene, receiving praise for an oration he made at St. Mark’s Lyceum. According to the 1910 U.S. Census, Nolen returned home to Nashville where he was a lawyer.[^2] 

He married Florence Elizabeth Seymour in New York in 1911. By 1929, he was widowed and married to Clara Llewellyn of Jersey City. However, a 1932 article from *The New York Age* claimed that Nolen used Llewellyn for her money to run a school in the Bronx and that Llewellyn planned for divorce.[^3] Nolen was developing a school in the Bronx, incorporated as the New York Industrial School of Master Mechanics, which would provide African American men an education in mechanical arts. 

By the 1930 U.S. Census, he was living in Bayonne, New Jersey where he worked as a contractor. He was elected to the presidency of Bayonne’s United Educational Forum in 1935. Nolen remained an active alumnus of Yale, attending a Yale Law School Association dinner in 1949. He retired in The Bronx, New York and died in 1952.[^4] 


[^1]:"United States, World War I Draft Registration Cards, 1917-1918", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:KZJV-TL9: Sat Nov 01 03:16:12 UTC 2025), Entry for William Washington Nolen, from 1917 to 1918; “Brillian Man Dies From Mob Violence,” *The New York Age*, December 11, 1913, 2; “Attorney William Nolen Marries Young Widow,” The *New York Age*, December 21, 1929, 10. 

[^2]:“Diplomas Given At Walden: Twelve Graduates of Law Department Including One Japanese,” *Nashville Banner*, May 13, 1903, 2; “Notes for the Afro-Americans,” *The Pittsburgh Press*, September 30, 1906, 37; “Afro…American Notes,” *The Pittsburgh Press*, May 21, 1905, 42; “Yale Kent Club: Debate Question of Seating of Senator Reed Smoot,” The Morning Journal-Courier, March 6, 1907, 6; “St. Mark’s Lyceum,” *The New York Age*, May 19, 1910, 3; "United States, Census, 1910", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MGX5-1ZK : Wed Aug 13 17:14:49 UTC 2025), Entry for William W Nolen and Sophia Nolen, 1910. 

[^3]:New York City Department of Health, Marriage Certificate, certificate no. M-M-1911-0021931 (1911), New York, New York; “Attorney William Nolen Marries Young Widow,” *The New York Age*, December 21, 1929, 10; New York City Department of Health, Marriage Certificate, certificate no. M-M-1930-0000911 (1930), New York, New York; “Institute of Mechanics Incorporated in State,” *The New York Amsterdam News*, September 18, 1929, 11; “Jersey City Woman Seeks Information About School Alleged Located in Bronx,” *The New York Age, April 16, 1932*, 6.  

[^4]:"United States, Census, 1930", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:X466-Q58 : Fri Mar 08 00:36:23 UTC 2024), Entry for William Nolan and Grace Nolan, 1930; “Bayonne, N. J.,” *The New York Amsterdam News*, July 6, 1935, 18; “Socially Yours,” *The New York Age*, May 7, 1949, 5; “w,” *The New York Times*, September 14, 1952, 86. 
