# Albert Leroy Skinner
## Attended Yale College 1885-1886

Albert Leroy Skinner was born in New Haven, Connecticut, in 1865 to Edward Leroy Skinner and Mary L. Hassell. According to the 1870 U.S. Census, his father, Edward, worked as a carriage painter. He was related to the McLinns and Skinners, prominent Black families from the south in 19th century New Haven. He attended Hillhouse High School where he was known for his oratory abilities. He provided a declamation of Rienzi’s speech to the Romans at Hillhouse and served as orator at Hillhouse’s commencement. He graduated from Hillhouse High School in 1885 and began attending Yale College.[^1] 

He would only attend Yale College for the 1885-1886 school year, withdrawing after his first year. In 1888, he was one of the secretaries for the New Haven Republican’s Black chapter. He was present at Frederick Douglass’ address in support of Benjamin Harrison’s presidential campaign at the Hyperion Theater. Skinner was also active in the New Haven Black church community. He provided several orations at Zion Church. After the death of President Ulysses S. Grant, he provided a eulogy at Zion Church. He also spoke at the church on “Twenty-four years of freedom and citizenship.” In 1889, he was a committee member of a picnic that consisted of the AME churches in New Haven.[^2] 

After leaving Yale, he began teaching at Livingstone College in Salisbury, North Carolina. He also taught at grammar schools in Jonesboro, North Carolina and Tyaskin, Maryland. He returned to New Haven to care for his mother. He began to take an interest in art, taking art courses in New York City in the summer of 1890. He returned to New Haven and continued to pursue painting and drawing. He became ill and died in New Haven on June 26, 1895.[^3]  

[^1]:"United States, Census, 1870", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MN7F-9MN : Tue Oct 28 19:48:04 UTC 2025), Entry for Edward L Skinner and Mary Skinner, 1870; “At The Schools,” *The Morning Journal-Courier*, February 21, 1885, 2; “Class of ’85,” *The Morning Journal-Courier*, January 20, 1885, 4.  

[^2]:Douglass To-Night,”The Morning Journal-Courier, October 25, 1888, 2; “Memorial—Excursions,” *The New York Freeman*, August 15, 1885, 1; “New Haven Happenings: A Young Graduate’s Lecture – Religious and Personal Notes,” *The New York Age*, October 19, 1889; “The Colored Picnic Postponed,” *The Morning Journal Courier*, April 15, 1889, 2.  

[^3]:*Class of ’89 Quindecennial* (New Haven: The Tuttle, Morehouse & Taylor Company, 1904), 184. 

 
