# Alphonso Primius Dawkins
## Attended Yale College 1905-1906

Alphonso Primius Dawkins was born on July 2, 1878, in Carlisle, South Carolina to Charner Dawkins and Laura Ann Cannon. He attended Ferguson Academy and Harbison College in Abbeville, South Carolina before enrolling at Lincoln University.  He competed in a junior oration contest at Lincoln University in 1904. He graduated from Lincoln University in 1905 where he spoke at commencement on the Civil War. He enrolled at Yale University as a sophomore in the same year.[^1] 

He lived at 72 Edgewood Avenue in New Haven with fellow 1905 graduates of Lincoln University Walter Keene and Wiliam Emmanuel Hendrickson. He also lived with Stephen Alexander Bennett, who was enrolled as a graduate student at Yale. Under the Sophomore Tutorial System, he and Keene were under the supervision of Assistant Professor Charles Upson Clark. Dawkins worked as an usher for the Yale-Princeton football game on November 18, 1905. He returned home to Carlisle after the 1905-1906 school year and died on July 21, 1906. He was buried in Paradise AME Church Cemetery in Union, South Carolina.[^2]  

[1] “Closing Scenes: Commencement Exercises of Ferguson Academy,” *The Abbeville Press and Banner*, 5; “Jubilee Commencement: Lincoln University Celebrates and Also Graduates—Addresses by Alumni—Distinguished Guests,” *The Oxford Press*, May 19, 1904, 5; “Collegiate Commencement,” *Lincoln University Herald* 10, no. 1, 4. "United States, Census, 1900", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:M3TR-44N: Tue Jun 10 21:31:47 UTC 2025), Entry for Charner Dawkins and Laurann Dawkins, 1900. 

[2] “Sophomore Tutorial System: List of Members of 1908 Assigned to the Sixteen Supervisors,” *Yale Daily News*, November 10, 1905, 1; “Ushers For November 18th: List of Men Who Will Serve In This Capacity In the Yale-Princeton Game,” *Yale Daily News*, November 15, 1905, 1; *History of the Class of 1908: Yale College*, vol. 2 (New Haven: Yale University, 1914), 335; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/209865532/alphonso-p.-dawkins

