# Miles Remond Gordon 
## Graduate of Yale Medical School, 1894 

Miles Remond Gordon was born on October 22, 1864, in Richmond, Virginia to Christopher Harding Gordon, a baker, and Susan Frances Robinson Gordon. His family eventually moved to Massachusetts where he was enrolled at Natick High School in Natick, Massachusetts. He married Maud Louise in 1886. In 1890, he enrolled at Yale Medical School.[^1] During his time in New Haven, he was a congregant of St. Luke’s Episcopal Church.[^2] 

As a part of the Henry Hyland Gunnett Lyceum in New Haven, he and James R. Spurgeon, another black Yale alumnus, travelled to Cooper Union in New York to sit in on a lecture by Frederick Douglass concerning Haiti.[^3] Following his graduation from Yale Medical School in 1894, he moved to Boston, Massachusetts.  

In 1898, he was selected as a Grand Master for the David Walker Lodge of Boston within the Colored Knights of Pythias, in 1901, he was a Grand Keeper for the Grand Lodge in Worcester, Massachusetts.[^4] In 1905, he moved from Worcester to Springfield, Massachusetts and would serve in various leadership positions for Harmony Lodge No. 140 in Springfield.[^5] He also was part of the Executive Committee of the Springfield chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.  

In 1913, he divorced Maud Louise and married Eva May Harrison.[^6] He died on November 20, 1929, from intestinal cancer. A Massachusetts newspaper made note in his obituary of his 25 years of medical practice in Springfield [^7] 

[^1]:*Catalogue of Yale University, CXCI Year, 1890-1891* (New Haven, CT: Tuttle Morehouse & Taylor Press, 1890), 236. 

[^2]:*Obituary Record of Graduates Deceased During the Year Ending July 1, 1928* (New Haven, CT: Yale University, 1928), 320.  

[^3]:“To Attend Douglas’ Lecture.” *The Morning Journal-Courier*, March 9, 1892, 2. 

[^4]:“Colored Pythian,” *The Boston Globe*, July 6, 1898, 5; “Open Three Days’ Session.” *The Boston Globe*, July 16, 1901, 5. 

[^5]:“Worcester Notes.” *The New York Age*, May 18, 1905, 3. 

[^6]:*Obituary Record of Graduates*, 321.  

[^7]:*Transcript-Telegram*, November 22, 1929, 7. 
