# Isaac Thomas Gillam, Jr.
## Attended Yale Graduate School 1899-1900

Isaac Thomas Gillam, Jr. was born on April 21, 1875, in Little Rock, Arkansas, to Isaac T. Gillam Sr. and Cora Alice McCarrell. His father, Isaac T. Gillam, was a prominent figure in Little Rock’s African American community. His father was born enslaved in Tennessee, served in the Union Army, and served on Little Rock’s City Council and the Arkansas General Assembly. Gillam attended the local high schools in Little Rock before enrolling at Howard University. While at Howard, Gillam was a member of the Alpha Phi Literary Society and the Christian Endeavour Society. In January 1898, he took the negative position in a debate on whether “the negro, in his present condition, should seek manual training in preference to higher education.”[^1] 

After his graduation from Howard University in 1898, Gillam enrolled in the Yale Graduate School. While at Yale, Gillam wrote to his father on the advantages education could provide to African Americans. The *Arkansas Daily Gazette* published the letter, in which Gillam said: 

>“If ever there is to be a solution, it is to come from the negro himself, and it will never come until the greater part of the negro race has become educated and has acquired property and wealth.”[^2] 

He attended the Yale Graduate School from 1898 to 1900. He then returned home to Little Rock and became a science teacher and assistant principal of Union High School. At Union High School, he worked with the principal, Jefferson Gatherford Ish Sr., the father of two early Black Yale graduates. At Union High, he organized the school football team after his experience with the sport at Yale. He, alongside Ish Sr., were selected as representatives of Little Arkansas’ Negro Business Men’s League to attend the National Negro Business League. In 1903, he married Lida Rebecca Anthony. In 1904, he helped organize a Negro Young Men’s Christian Organization in Little Rock and became president of the organization. He also became president of Little Rock’s Negro Christian Endeavor Society. At some point, he stopped teaching and became a letter carrier for Little Rock’s Post Office. In 1906, he resigned as a letter carrier and took on a position as an assistant principal for a colored high school in Fort Smith, Arkansas. He returned to Little Rock in 1908 and became a teacher for M. W. Gibbs High School. With Ish Sr., they opened Pulaski County Negro Teachers’ Institute for African American educators in the county. The institute operated out of Gibbs High School where, over the summer, African American teachers received additional training. He was also active in Arkansas’ Negro State Teachers’ Association where he served as an officer of the Fifth District for the association. By 1918, he eventually became principal of the high school. In 1921, his school was recognized by *The Chicago Defender* as becoming one of “the finest school of its kind in Arkansas.”[^3] 

In 1930, he worked with the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity and served as a state director for Arkansas for the fraternity’s "Go-To-High-School, Go-To-College" campaign for African American boys and girls. He also joined the American Teachers Association, an African American Teachers’ Union, and was vice president of the union by 1938. Gillam also joined the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). In 1938, he was selected as treasurer and received correspondence from William Pickens, a Black Yale College graduate of 1903. In the letter, Pickens shared his experience at Union High School and his affinity for Gillam family when he was growing up in Little Rock. In 1944, after a Supreme Court Ruling banned all-white primaries, Gillam was photographed as the first African American to vote in an Arkansas Democratic Primary.[^4] 

As a congregant of Bethel A. M. E. Church in Little Rock, he organized weekly meetings that discussed African American religious and social issues. Gillam was also affiliated with the Colored Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, the Elks, and Sigma Pi Phi. Gillam would go on to dedicate fifty years of his life to teaching in Arkansas, including at the veteran’s school at Paul Dunbar High School. He died on June 6, 1953, in Little Rock and was buried in Fraternal Cemetery. His grandson, aerospace engineer Isaac Thomas Gillam IV, was a director of the Armstrong Flight Research Center.[^5] 

[^1]:Tom Dillard, “Isaac Taylor Gillam (1839-1904),” *CALS Encyclopedia of Arkansas*, encyclopediaofarkansas.net; “Howard University,” *Evening Star*, January 29, 1898, 20; “Howard University,” *Evening Star*, February 19, 1898, 18; Arkansas Department of Vital Records, Little Rock, Arkansas, Death Certificates, 1953, Roll: 3, 7383.  

[^2]:“Words of Advice: From I. T. Gillam, Jr., Colored, Student at Yale,” *The Arkansas Gazette*, December 28, 1898, 6. 

[^3]:“The Arkansas Negro Business Men’s League: Pursuing Black Prosperity in an Era of Disfranchisement and Segregation,” *The Arkansas Historical Quarterly* 82, no. 3/4 (2023), 118; “Local Brevities,” *The Arkansas Democrat*, November 11, 1899, 4; “Colored Business League: Appoints Representatives to Attend National Business Men’s League,” *The Arkansas Democrat*, June 12, 1901, 5; “Marriage Licenses,” *The Arkansas Democrat*, June 25, 1903, 3; “Negro Y.M.C.A. Is Organized,” *The Arkansas Democrat*, February 27, 1904, 8; “Negro Endeavor Meeting Adjourns,” *The Arkansas Democrat*, July 2, 1905, 7; “I. T. Gillam Resigns As Letter Carrier,” *The Arkansas Gazette*, September 23, 1906, 4; “Negro Teachers’ Institute: One Hundred and Thirty-five Are Enrolled at Gibbs School,” *The Arkansas Gazette*, June 8, 1909, 10; “Condemned The Saloons: Speaker Before Negro Teachers’ Association Says They Cause Crime and Poverty,” *The Arkansas Democrat*, December 30, 1909, 7; “Teachers Adjourn: H. H. Sutton of Little Rock Elected President of State Association,” *The Arkansas Democrat*, December 31, 1909, 8; “Would Give Credit For Study Of The Bible: School Board Adopts Plan—Teachers Are Assigned for 1918-1919 Term,” *The Arkansas Democrat*, August 31, 1918, 7; “Arkansas: Little Rock, Ark.,” *The Chicago Defender*, June 25, 1921, 13. 

[^4]:“Alphas Open Educational Drive Next Week: Countless Programs Planned,” *New Pittsburgh Courier*, May 3, 1930, 20; “Teachers Plan To Meet In Tuskegee,” *New Pittsburgh Courier*, March 26, 1938, 8; Letter from William Pickens, Director of Branches, to Prof. I. T. Gillam, Treasurer, Little Rock Branch, November 18, 1938, in NAACP Papers, Part 12: Selected Branch Files, 1913-1939, Little Rock, Arkansas Branch Operations, 1937-1938; “Casts First Arkansas Ballot,” *The Chicago Defender*, August 12, 1944, 2.  

[^5]: “Around the City,” *The Arkansas Democrat*, October 2, 1916, 4; “Convocation of Colored Free masons,” Pine Bluff Daily Graphic, December 30, 1906, 1; “Veteran Arkansas Teacher, Dies,” *The Call*, June 19, 1953, 15; “Veteran Arkansas Teacher, Dies,” *The Call*, June 19, 1953, 15; Arkansas Department of Vital Records, Little Rock, Arkansas, Death Certificates, 1953, Roll: 3, 7383; https://www.nasa.gov/people/isaac-t-gillam-iv/

Image citation: Photo from funeral program, original source unknown. Accessed via FindaGrave.
