# Augustus Barnes Tabb
## Attended Yale Law School 1900-1903

Augustus Barnes Tabb was born in Petersburg, Virginia on June 19, 1870, to Augustus M. Tabb and Sabina Barnes. According to the 1870 U.S. Census, Augustus Sr. worked as a porter while Sabina worked at home. The family eventually moved to Rhode Island. Tabb graduated from Lincoln University in 1900. He attended Yale Law School from 1900 to 1903 but did not receive a degree.. According to *The Yale Shingle*, Tabb had considered working for the government in the Philippines. He married Emily Mae Morgan in New Bedford, Massachusetts. He eventually moved to Jersey City, New Jersey where he passed his civil service examination to work in the city jails in 1913. Tabb would spend most of his career as a barber, becoming the chief barber for Jersey City’s County Penitentiary. In 1922, he was severely beaten after getting into an argument with a prisoner.[^1] 

Tabb also spent much of his life as a leader for the Elks. He was installed as an officer of the Progressive Lodge, No. 35, of Improved Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks of the World in Jersey City in 1918. One of his responsibilities included organizing efforts to relieve the poor African American population in Jersey City. In 1921, he was elected to the chair of the Progressive Lodge, No. 35. He would also be elected as treasurer of the New Jersey State Association of Elks. Alongside his role as treasurer for the Elks, he also served as Lincoln University’s General Alumni Association’s treasurer. In 1938, he was a speaker at a rally of Elks in Trenton that protested Jim Crow policies in New Jersey.[^2] 

He died in 1963 and was buried in Bayview-New York Bay Cemetery in Jersey City.[^3] 

Image citation: *The Yale Shingle*, 1903, Lillian Goldman Law Library, Yale University.

[^1]:Laurence Foster, eds., *The Alumni Directory of Lincoln University* (Lincoln University: Lincoln University, 1946), 110; "United States, Census, 1870", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MFLR-DR6 : Thu Oct 23 00:38:40 UTC 2025), Entry for Augustus Tabb and Sirannia Tabb, 1870; “Lincoln Class Graduates,” *The Philadelphia Inquirer*, June 6, 1900, 4; *The Yale Shingle*, 1903 (New Haven: Ryder’s Printing House, 1903), 80; "Massachusetts, State Vital Records, 1638-1927", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:N4XK-LSR: Thu May 23 02:12:41 UTC 2024), Entry for Augustus Barnes Tabb and Emily Maie Morgan, 16 Dec 1908; “Pass Examination For Court Attendants,” *Hudson Observer*, July 25, 1913; “Resentenced To ‘Pen’ On Day of Release,” *Jersey Observer and Jersey Journal*, September 7, 1922, 1.  

[^2]“Jersey City, N.J.,” *The New York Age*, January 25, 1919, 2; “Jersey City, N.J.,” *The Chicago Defender*, July 9, 1921, 9; “Shouse Elected,” *New Journal and Guide*, July 3, 10; *Catalogue of Lincoln University*, 1932-1933 (Lincoln University: Lincoln University, 1933), 9; “Jim Crow In New Jersey Protested: 1,500 Elks Stage Mass Meeting In Trenton, N.J.,” *Atlanta Daily World*, May 4, 1938, 1.  

[^3]:“Mr. Tabb Buried In Jersey City,” *New York Amsterdam News*, January 11, 1964, 29; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/283333500/augustus-barnes-tabb. 
