# James Arthur Harley
## Attended Yale College 1902-1903

Harley was born on May 15, 1873, in Antigua to Henry James Harley and Eleanora Josephine Lake. He left Antigua and began studying at Howard University’s preparatory department. While at Howard University, he was active with St. Luke’s Episcopal Church in Washington, D.C. At the church, he served as their organist and choirmaster. In 1902, Harley graduated from Howard University’s law school and enrolled at Yale College in the same year.[^1] 

At Yale, Harley was a member of the Freshman Union. On November 25, 1902, he debated "in the affirmative that immigration should be further restricted by the law.” He also expressed an interest in joining the Chapel Choir as a tenor. While he resided in New Haven, Harley was renowned as an organist. He was a congregant of St. Luke’s Episcopal Church in New Haven where he became an assistant choirmaster. Harley was also invited to be an accompanist for Immanuel Baptist Church’s John Brown Concert on May 20, 1903. However, Harley did not return to Yale and expressed his interest in furthering his “oratorical ambitions” elsewhere.[^2] 

He instead enrolled at Harvard College. At Harvard, he specialized in Semitic languages and history and won prizes in English composition. Harley was also a member of Harvard’s debate team. While a student at Harvard, Harley returned to New Haven and assisted the rector of St. Luke, Eugene L. Henderson (another early Black Yale student) in Easter Services in 1905. Harley graduated magna cum laude from Harvard in 1906. He remained in Cambridge and enrolled at Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Massachusetts, before leaving for England to study at Oxford, where he graduated in 1909. He married Josephine Maritcha Lawson, a teacher from Washington, DC., in 1910 but the two divorced in 1918.[^3]  

In 1909, Harley was ordained and served as a curate for St. Botolph’s Church in Shepshed, Marshside, and Deal in England. Later, returning to Oxford, he received a master’s in 1914. Harley left the clergy in 1916 and worked at a munitions factory at Faversham, England, during the First World War. After the war he became active in local politics in Shepshed. He would be elected to Leicestershire County Council in 1937 and served as councilor until his death on May 12, 1943.[^4]    

 
[^1]:“Easter Music,” *The Evening Star*, March 29, 1902, 11; Secretary’s Third Report: Harvard College Class of 1906 (Cambridge: Crimson Printing Company, 1916),178; “Howard’s Lawyers: Twenty Lawyers Turned Out—A Brilliant Scene at the Congregational Church Ex Senator Thurston Speaks,” *The Washington Bee*, May 31, 1902, 1.   

[^2]:“Freshman Union,” *The Yale Daily News*, November 20, 1902, 1; “Choir Trials,” *The Yale Daily News*, September 30, 1902, 1; “Japanese Favor Yale: Twenty of Them Studying There This Year—Other Foreign Students,” *The Sun*, October 26, 1902; “St. Luke’s Song Recital,” *The Morning Journal Courier*, October 27, 1902, 7; “John Brown’s Birthday: To be Observed With Fitting Honors at Immanuel Baptist Church Tonight,” *The Morning Journal Courier*, May 20, 1903, 5; Pamela Roberts, *The Adventures of a Black Edwardian Intellectual: The Story of James Arthur Harley* (Oxford: Signal Books, 2022), 275. 

[^3]:“Church Fair In Elm City: Fine Entertainments On Four Evenings Net $250,” The New York Age, April 7, 1905, 1; History of the Class of 1906, Yale College, vol 1. (New Haven; Yale University, 1906), 370; “Its Fortieth Matriculation: Rev. Anson Phelps Stokes, Jr., Preaches to Entering Class of Episcopal Theological School,” *Boston Evening Transcript*, November 1, 1906, 16; “News From The Capital City: Home for Friendless Girls To Have Building—Midsummer Chautauqua,” *The New York Age*, August 19, 1909; “Married,” *The Evening Star*, August 4, 1910, 7; Virginia Department of Health; Richmond, VA, USA; Virginia Divorce Records, 1918-2014, 18-000431.  

[^4]:*Ten-Year Sketch Book, Class of 1906, Yale College* (New Haven: Yale University, 1917), 167; Secretary’s Third Report: Harvard College Class of 1906 (Cambridge: Crimson Printing Company, 1916), 179; “A Well-Documented Life,” University of Oxford Pitt Rivers Museum, https://www.prm.ox.ac.uk/event/well-documented-life. 

Image citation: Yale College Class of 1906 class book, Yale University Library.
