# George Lafayette Camm 
## Graduate of Yale Law School, 1880

George Lafayette Camm, who received an L.L.B. degree (an undergraduate law degree) in 1880, is one of the earliest known Black graduates of Yale. Enrolling in the 1878-1879 academic year, Camm lived with Edwin Archer Randolph, another Black student studying law, at 39 Sperry Street in New Haven. 

While living in New Haven, he was active in Republican politics in the Ninth Ward, the same ward where Isaac Napoleon Porter, a Black member of the Yale College Class of 1893 would later represent the city as a councilman from 1896 to 1897. Camm served as secretary of the “Garfield and Arthur Club No. 3,” a Black chapter, following his graduation from Yale. The last mention of Camm so far found in New Haven newspapers is from September 1880.[^1]

According to his alumni file, mail addressed to an address in Athens, Georgia (his home address as a student), was returned in 1906. From the early 1900s through the 1940s, the university repeatedly made efforts to locate Camm, even placing a notice on the front page of the Athens, Georgia Banner-Herald in 1923, seeking information.[^2] The office of the alumni registrar also wrote letters to classmates and other people with the same surname seeking information, but without success. Although the university was not seeking payment of any debts, a note in his file dated July 10, 1939, explains that Camm was one of several graduates who never received their diplomas “because they failed to settle their indebtedness to the University.” His diploma is included in the Yale Diploma Collection (RU 150). There are no Camms listed in the Athens, Georgia, city directories of 1889, 1894, 1897, 1904, or 1909. However, there is a George Camm, denoted as Black, listed in the Savannah, Georgia, directories of 1896, 1897, and 1898. This Camm was listed as a laborer in 1896; a teacher in 1897; and a laborer in 1897. His wife was listed as Susie.

An article appeared in the *Savannah Morning News* on September 11, 1886, that may explain in part Camm’s whereabouts. It is the only mention found so far in Georgia newspapers of “George L. Camm.” It is reproduced here in full: 

>A Strange Prisoner. A Negro Who Couldn’t Account for Himself to the Police.
>
>Policeman Sullivan took to the barracks last night a one-armed colored man, whom he found asleep at Barnard and State streets. The policeman stated that he had not been able to get any intelligible answers from the man, whom he did not think was drunk, but who certainly was not able to take care of himself.
>
>To questions the man answered that his name was Tom H. Smith and that he formerly lived in Halcyondale, on the Central railroad. He had only one arm, and he said that he came to Savannah to get work. He claimed to be a school teacher and stated that he taught school from 1851 to 1855. As he only claimed to be 27 years old, his statement about the time when he taught sounded rather improbable. His answers were contradictory, and he did not appear to know what he was doing or saying. He denied that he was drunk and could not tell what was the matter. 
>
>Sergt. Killourhy and a NEWS reporter carefully diagnosed Smith's case, and came to the conclusion that he must have taken some drug. Several letters and postal cards addressed to George L. Camm were found in the man's pockets. When asked if he knew Camm he replied that it was his own name. 
>
>Dr. Owens was sent for and after diagnosing the case he pronounced it softening of the brain or possibly malaria. Camm will probably be sent to the Georgia Infirmary to-day.[^3]


[^1]: *Morning-Journal Courier* [New Haven], August 6, 1880; “Garfield and Arthur Club No. 3,” Morning-Journal Courier, August 25, 1880; “Political Notices,” *Morning-Journal Courier*, September 30, 1880.

[^2]: “Yale University Asks for Information of Lost Athens Graduate,” *The Banner-Herald* [Athens, Ga.], June 3, 1923, Digital Library of Georgia.

[^3]: “A Strange Prisoner,” *Savannah Morning News*, September 11, 1886.
