# Norman Lee Bush
## Attended Yale Divinity School 1929-1930

Norman Lee Bush was born on January 20, 1900, in Aiken, South Carolina to Jacob Bush, a farmer, and Estell Bush. He attended South Carolina State University in Orangeburg where he was a member of the varsity debate team. He graduated from the institution in 1928 and enrolled at Yale Divinity School in the same year. He attended Yale Divinity School from 1928 to 1929 but left without a degree.[^1] 

He served as principal of Batesburg High School in Batesburg, South Carolina from 1934 to 1944. He also served as a dean of Bettis Academy and Junior College. In 1944, he spoke at South Carolina State University’s Founder’s Day celebration. In 1947, he transitioned careers and became a pastor of Friendship Baptist Church in Aiken. He would spend most of his life pastoring the church. In the 1960s, Bush worked with other pastors to organize on behalf of Black workers in Aiken. In 1965, Bush ran in the Democratic primary for Aiken City Council. He was elected as vice president of the city’s Democratic Club.[^2] 

In 1970, he officiated the wedding of Josephus Coan, another early Black Yale graduate from South Carolina. Bush died on October 31, 1981 in Evanston, Illinois and was buried in Aiken. The Friendship Baptist Church renamed their activity building in his honor as N. L. Bush Activity Building.[^3] 

[^1]:"United States, Census, 1900", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:M3R3-6R9: Thu Jan 01 19:35:50 UTC 2026), Entry for Jacob Bush and Estell Bush, 1900; “State College Notes,” *New Pittsburgh Courier*, February 4, 1928, 17; *Catalogue of Yale University, 1929-1930* (New Haven: Yale University, 1929), 625. 

[^2]:“Western Carolina Makes Bid Thru Beauties For Trip to N.Y. and Harlem: School and Business Observation Made in Addition To Beauties Found,” *The Palmetto Leader*, May 25, 1935, 1; “Rev. Norman Lee Bush,” *The Index-Journal*, November 2, 1981, 2; “3 Presidents Honored On Founder’s Day,” *The New York Age*, March 18, 1944, 12; “A Special Occasion,” *Aiken Standard*, November 18, 1974, 2; Matthew Christian, “Lessie Price shares journey from Barnwell County farm to Aiken City Council, president meetings,” *Aiken Standard*, January 22, 2023; “Republican Primary Being Held In Aiken,” *Index-Journal*, September 13, 1965, 5; “Brown Won’t Seek Reelection,” *Aiken Standard*, August 12, 1971, 1.  

[^3]:“Dr. Joseph Coan Takes A Wife In So. Carolina,” *Atlanta Daily World*, August 17, 1970, 3; "Illinois, Cook County Deaths, 1871-1998", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:Q2MJ-PTVB: Sat Aug 23 02:38:55 UTC 2025), Entry for Norman Bush and Jacob Bush, 31 Oct 1981; Matthew Christian, “Aiken City Council approves Friendship Baptist Church designation changes,” *Aiken Standard*, February 12, 2025. 
