# Arthur Garfield Harrison  
## Attended Yale Law School 1899-1902

Arthur Garfield Harrison was born on April 2, 1877, in Elkin, North Carolina, to Saunders Harrison and Martha Harrison. He attended Albion Academy in Franklinton, North Carolina, where he graduated as valedictorian. He then attended Lincoln University where he graduated in 1899 with rhetorical honors and addressed his class at commencement. He enrolled at Yale Law School the same year.[^1] 

At Yale, he was a member of the Kent Club. In March 1903, he argued the negative position at the Kent Club on the United States’ ratification of the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty. Nicknamed “Diogenes,” according to the Yale Law School yearbook, he was in the running for his class year’s “most to be admired” superlative. Despite his enrollment as a senior in 1902, he left Yale Law School without receiving his degree. He married Lyda S. Milburn in Delaware, Pennsylvania on October 24, 1905. He then moved to Seattle, Washington. He was invited to speak at the Emancipation Proclamation Jubilee in January 1907. Harrison was also admitted to practice as an attorney in the State of Washington in the same year.[^2] 

In Seattle, Harrison was known as a “learned and skillful colored lawyer.” He was retained by Mrs. Esther Campbell of Vancouver to help with an estate settlement in the United Kingdom. Campbell laid claim to the Crawford Estates, valued at $6,500,000 at the time. Harrison believed that the case was strong and decided to receive his compensation through a contingent fee where he would be entitled to a share of Campbell’s inheritance. The two left for Ireland in 1909 to make inquiries and stake their claim. He accompanied Mrs. Campbell again in 1911 to England to argue at the Chancery for the distribution. However, the case seemed to fail, and by 1917, according to an application he made at a U.S. consulate in England, Harrison was working as a packer for Pickles & Rae in Bradford.[^3]  

According to the consul, Harrison had moved to England for an estate settlement assignment but exhausted his money while fighting the case and struggled to make a living in England. Amid the First World War, Harrison expressed his desire to return to the United States when “the war is over and ocean travel is safer.” However, according to the 1921 England Census, Harrison continued to live in Liverpool, England as a shopkeeper. He later moved to Bradford. He became an astrologer, writing *The Infallible Guide to Future Events* in 1928. The book examined how astrology could predict horse-racing events. The 1939 England and Wales Register reported that Harrison and his wife were living in Bradford where Harrison worked as a master shopkeeper.[^4]  

The England & Wales, Civil Registration Death Index and *The Obituary Record of Graduates of Yale University* indicated that Harrison died on March 26, 1941, in Bradford, England.[^5] 

Image citation: _The Yale Shingle_, 1902, Lillian Goldman Law Library, Yale University.

[^1]:*The Yale Shingle*, 1902 (New Haven: Ryder’s Printing House, 1902), 82; “Afternoon Exercises: The Class of 1899 Graduates With High Honors,” *Daily Local News* [West Chester, Pennsylvania] June 7, 1899, 4. 

[^2]:“Kent Club,” *Yale Daily News*, March 13, 1900, 1; *The Yale Shingle*, 82; "Pennsylvania, County Marriages, 1775-1991", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:VF9C-HC3: Mon Jul 22 17:03:48 UTC 2024), Entry for Arthur G. Harrison and Lida S. Milburn, 24 Oct 1905; “Emancipation Proclamation Celebrated,” *The Seattle Republican*, January 4, 1907, 4. 

[^3]:“Vancouver Woman Seeks Fortune In Ireland: Mrs. Esther Campbell Returns to City After Visit to British Isles,” *The Vancouver Daily Province*, November 2, 1910, 8; “The Courts,” *The Crisis* 1, no. 6 (April 1911), 5; Consular Registration Applications, 1916-1925. NAID: 1251970, No. 11848, Record Group 59, General Records of the Department of State, 1763 - 2002. National Archives at College Park, College Park, MD. 

[^4]:Consular Registration Applications, 1916-1925. NAID: 1251970, No. 11848, Record Group 59, General Records of the Department of State, 1763 - 2002. National Archives at College Park, College Park, MD; Modern Astrology 25, no. 10 (October 1928), 313; The National Archives; Kew, London, England; 1939 Register; Reference: RG 101/3366D. 

[^5]:"England and Wales, Death Registration Index 1837-2007", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:QVHT-XF49: Sat Mar 01 07:53:43 UTC 2025), Entry for Arthur G Harrison, 1941.; *Obituary Record of Graduates of Yale University Deceased During the Year 1942-1943* (New Haven: Yale University, 1944), 305. 

 
