# Charles Hegemen, Jr.
## Attended Yale College 1885-1888

Charles Hegeman Jr., (sometimes spelled Hegamin) was born on July 12, 1865, to Charles Hegeman Sr. and Harriet Van Schaick. According to The New York State Museum, Hegeman Sr. was a waiter and a member of the Troy Vigilance Committee, which supported abolition and aided formerly enslaved people through the Underground Railroad. He attended Troy High School, where, according to *The New York Freeman*, he became the fifth Black graduate of the school in 1885. After a farewell reception from the Black community at Troy, Hegeman left for New Haven and enrolled at Yale College in the same year.[^1] 

He studied at Yale from 1885 to 1888, leaving after his junior year. He returned home to Troy where he worked as a private tutor. According to the *Class of 89’ Decennial Record*, Bishop William Croswell Doane of Albany offered Hegeman an opportunity to continue pursuing an education, but Hegeman put it off after the death of his father. Alongside his tutoring job, he worked as a Sacristan for St. Barnabas Episcopal Church. By 1913, Hegeman became a professor at Saint Paul Normal and Industrial School in Lawrenceville, Virginia where he taught Latin and history. He died on July 12, 1921, from a cerebral tumor in Lansingburgh, New York.[^2] 

[^1]:“Troy Letter,” *The New York Freeman*, June 27, 1885, 1; "New York, State Census, 1875", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:VNVH-75K : Wed Oct 08 09:08:38 UTC 2025), Entry for Chas Hegeman and Harriet W Hegeman, 1875; “The Power of Homestead Resource Page,” New York State Museum, https://nysm.nysed.gov/exhibitions/the-power-of-homestead-resources; “Troy Letter,” *The New York Freeman*, September 26, 1885, 1.  

[^2]:*Class of 89’ Decennial Record* (New York: Press of The Jersey City Co., 1899), 115; “Troy, N.Y.,” *The New York Age*, November 27, 1913, 3; *The Yale Alumni Weekly* 31, no. 3 (October 1921), 70. 
