# Clifton Monroe Mason
## Attended Yale Law School 1903-1904

Clifton Monroe Mason was born on November 25, 1878, in New York City. He also went by Monroe Clifton Mason and C. Monroe Mason in his lifetime. Mason’s parents are listed in the 1880 US Census as Henry Mason and Georgia Mason. Boston marriage records list them as Charles H. Mason and Georgianna Almond. According to the 1880 U.S. Census, the family lived in Manhattan where his father was a white washer.[^1] 

He graduated from Howard University in 1902 with a bachelor of laws. He enrolled at Yale Law School in the following year as a senior at Yale Law School. However, Mason only remained at Yale for the 1903-1904 academic year. While in New Haven, he was arrested for passing a bad check. He was released but rearrested in November 1904. He was initially fined $50 and faced three months in jail. He appealed his sentence and it was reduced to ten days in jail.[^2]  

Mason moved to Boston and began pursuing a career as a journalist, writing for William Monroe Trotter’s *Boston Guardian*. Mason became a close friend and fierce supporter of Trotter. Trotter was godfather to Mason's daughter, who was also named for Trotter's wife. Mason later moved to Roxbury, Massachusetts. Previously married to an unknown first spouse, he was remarried in 1912 to Fannie Wilder (née Larkie).[^3] 

In 1916, he joined the United States Army and was assigned to the 372nd Infantry Regiment which fought under French Army command. He was with the 372nd from 1916 to 1919, demobilizing with the rank of corporal. Inspired by his service during the war, Mason co-wrote a book titled *The American Negro Soldier with the Red Hand of France*. The book detailed the experiences of African American soldiers who were deployed in France during the First World War.[^4]  

Mason served in leadership positions within African American veteran organizations. He was an adjutant for the Boston branch of the League of Democracy and historian for the William E. Carter Post No. 16 of the American Legion. In 1920, the William E. Carter Post sent Mason as a delegate to the National Convention of the American Legion where he fought for an expansion of African American posts within the American Legion that was being thwarted by Southerners. Also, during the 1920s, Mason started his own magazine, *The Blue Helmet: A Magazine For The American Negro Soldier of All Wars*, and served as its founding editor.[^5] 

Continuing to work with Trotter, Mason was also member of the National Equal Rights League where he served as director of publicity. In 1922, he was a part of a delegation of Bostonians who met with Massachusetts Republican Senator and Senate Majority Leader Henry Cabot Lodge to lobby for the Dyer Anti-Lynching Bill. Mason would go on to appear before the United States House judiciary committee to discuss the bill. He was also active in Boston’s Republican party, affiliating himself with the Coolidge Republican Club of Massachusetts. In 1939, as adjutant of the United Colored War Veterans of America, Mason continued his efforts for an end to racial prejudice in the army.[^6] 

In his later years, Mason worked at the Roxbury Post Office for nearly thirty years. Throughout his lifetime, Mason was also affiliated with the William E. Butler Lodge of the Prince Hall Mason and St. Mark’s Congregational Church. Mason died July 28, 1973, in Roxbury at the age of 94. He was buried in Mount Hope Cemetery in Boston.[^7] 

Image citation: *The St. Louis Argus,* October 24, 1924.
 
[^1]:"United States, Census, 1880", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MZ6K-CW3 : Wed Oct 22 00:37:36 UTC 2025), Entry for Henry Mason and Clifton Mason, 1880. 

[^2]:“To Practice The Law: Score of Graduates From Howard University,” *The Evening Star, May 27, 1902*, 7; “In And About The Courts,” *The Morning Journal-Courier*, November 8, 1904, 8; “Former Negro Student of Yale Sent to Jail,” *New York Herald*, November 13, 1904, 11; “In And About The Courts: Some of the Common Pleas Cases,” *The Morning Journal-Courier*, December 13, 1904; “Clifford Mason Appeal,” *The Morning Journal-Courier*, December 16, 1904, 3.  

[^3]:"Massachusetts, State Vital Records, 1638-1927", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:N46Q-PK3: Thu May 23 01:13:17 UTC 2024), Entry for Clifton M Mason and Fannie Larkie Wilder, 15 Apr 1912;“Monroe Mason, 94, crusader, author, poet,” *Bay State Banner*, August 16, 1973, 18.  

[^4]:National Archives at St. Louis; St. Louis, MO, USA; Applications for Headstones and Markers, 7/1/1970-9/30/1985; NAID: 6016127; Record Group Number: 15; Record Group Title: Records of the Department of Veterans Affairs, 1773-2007.  

[^5]:“Reconstruction Was Keynote of Discourse At Federation Meet,” Phoenix Tribune, July 26, 1919, 4. “Boston News,” *The Chicago Defender*, April 12, 1924, 24; “Why Legion Did Not Recognize The Ex-Service Men,” *The St. Louis Argus*, October 15, 1920, 6; *The Blue Helmet* 2, no. 7 (April 1924), 3.  

[^6]:“Equal Rights League Ends Convention Here,” *Brookyln Eagle*, September 23, 1923, 7; “Lodge Will Lead Fight For Anti-Lynch Bill: Massachusetts Senator Promises To Help Get Dyer Bill On the Calendar,” *The Afro-American*, June 16, 1922, 1; “League Was Ready To Appear At Hearing,” *The Monitor*, January 18, 1924, 1; “Coolidge Club Dinner Guest Of Its Founder,” *Boston Daily Globe*, June 1923, 8; “United Veterans Seek Fair Chance For Negro Soldiers: Request Opportunity for Negroes to Enlist in Defense Branches on Basis of Fitness and Intelligence,” *New Pittsburgh Courier*, September 22, 1939, 12.  

[^7]:“Monroe Mason,” Boston Globe, July 30, 1973, 34; National Archives at St. Louis; St. Louis, MO, USA; Applications for Headstones and Markers, 7/1/1970-9/30/1985; NAID: 6016127; Record Group Number: 15; Record Group Title: Records of the Department of Veterans Affairs, 1773-2007. 
