# Purvis Sinclair Henderson
## Attended Yale Graduate School 1929-1931

Purvis Sinclair Henderson was born on January 22, 1896, to Dr. Pickney Marion Henderson and Huldah A. Jane Hooper. His father, Pickney, was a physician who completed his medical education at Howard University. He attended Massachusetts College of Pharmacy. From 1918 to 1919, Henderson was a part of the medical detachment for the 807th Pioneer Infantry Regiment. From 1920 to 1921, he was a special student at Harvard Medical School. He began his career as a pharmacist in Boston, Mass., Camden, New Jersey, and New York City.[^1] 

Between 1929 and 1931, Henderson began a PhD program at the Yale Graduate School in physiology. He left Yale before completing his PhD program and instead taught at Alabama State Teachers College. He entered New York Medical College and Flower Hospital, graduating in 1937 with a doctor of medicine. According to a yearbook biography, colored patients felt comfortable around him and were proud to be treated by another Black doctor. After graduation, he went to Chicago, Illinois to complete his residency at Provident Hospital. There, he met another residency student, Helen Octavia Dickens, and in 1943, he married Helen at the Woodlawn A.M.E. Church in Chicago. Helen would go on to be successful in healthcare, being the first African American women to join the American College of Surgeons.[^2]

He worked at Freedmen’s Hospital in Washington, D.C but was forced to resign in 1944 due to an affair he maintained while working there. He practiced in Savannah, Georgia, briefly, before moving to Philadelphia permanently. He was affiliated with the Omega Psi Phi fraternity. In Philadelphia, he worked on neurological research with the University of Pennsylvania Medical School and was a surgeon for the university’s hospital. His research took him abroad, where he was a fellow at the Montreal Neurological Institute, and he completed advanced neurological research in London, England. He died of a cerebral hemorrhage in 1961 and is buried in Arlington National Cemetery.[^3]

[^1]:"Massachusetts, Town Clerk, Vital and Town Records, 1626-2001", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:F4FL-GB1 : Sun Mar 10 03:18:52 UTC 2024), Entry for Purvis S Henderson and Pinkney Henderson, 22 January 1896; https://baystatebanner.com/2012/04/11/bostons-black-medical-community-thrived-in-the-mid-19th-century; "United States, Enlisted and Officer Muster Rolls and Rosters, 1916-1939", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:D69M-JX3Z : Wed Apr 23 09:15:00 UTC 2025), Entry for Purvis S Henderson, 30 Sep 1918; _Bulletin of the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy_ (Boston, MA: Massachusetts College of Pharmacy, 1917), 32; _Harvard Alumni Bulletin_ (Cambridge, MA: Harvard Bulletin, Incorporated, 1938), 728. 
[^2]:“New York Medical To Give 84 Degrees,” _The New York Times_, June 8, 1937, 23; “Alabama State Begins 57th Year,” _New Pittsburgh Courier_, October 3, 1931, 11; _Fleur-O-Scope: Nineteen Hundred Thirty-Seven_ (New York, NY: New York Medical College & Flower Hosptial, 1937), 93; “Quiet Nuptials Join Provident Staff Doctors,” _Chicago Bee_, August 8, 1943, 4. 
[^3]:“Doctor Forced Out: Guard Finds Woman in Medic’s Quarters,” _Afro-American_, September 30, 1944, 1; “Prominent Surgeon Dies; Hemorrhage Blamed In Demise,” Philadelphia Tribune, March 7, 1961; “Obituaries,” _Delaware County Daily Times_, March 6, 1961, 4; “Prominent Surgeon Dies; Hemorrhage Blamed In Demise,” _Philadelphia Tribune_, March 7, 1961, 1; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/49202155/purvis-sinclair-henderson.

