# Maurice Pierre Lafleur
## Research Fellow at the Yale School of Medicine circa 1927-1929; received Master's in Public Health, 1931

Maurice Pierre Lafleur was born in Port-au-Prince, Haiti in 1890. He received his bachelor’s degree in 1912 and his medical degree in 1918 from the University of Haiti.  Lafleur taught at the Medical School of Port-au-Prince where he was a professor of semiology and histology. Alongside Édouard Alexander Petrus, he received funding from the Rockefeller Foundation for a research fellowship in the Department of Public Health within the Yale School of Medicine. There, he worked alongside Professor Charles-Edward Amory Winslow and Ira Vaughn Hiscock. In the summer of 1930, he worked with Doctor Walter Clarence Earle. In 1931, he graduated from Yale School of Medicine with a masters of public health, making him the first Black student to receive the degree from Yale.[^1] 

He returned to Port-au-Prince where he was a medical school professor and worked for the Department of Public Hygiene for Port-au-Prince. He had a decades-long career in public health with his last job being a physician for the city airport. He was also active in the Baháʼí faith and, in 1950, was the president of the faith in Port-au-Prince. He died in Port-au-Prince on November 7, 1968.[^2] 

Image citation: *Baháʼí News*, July 1959.

[^1]:The National Archives in Washington, DC; Washington, DC, USA; Passenger and Crew Lists of Vessels Arriving at New York, New York, 1897-1957; Microfilm Serial or NAID: T715; RG Title: Records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 1787-2004; RG: 85; Annual Report of the Director General of the Public Health for the Fiscal Year 1926-1927, 17; Annual Report of the Director General of the Public Health for the Fiscal Year, 1930, 28; *Bulletin of Yale University: Graduate School Catalogue Number for the Sessions of 1930-1931* (New Haven, Yale University, 1930), 371; Catalogue of Yale University Alumni, 1925-1954: *Supplement to Catalogue of the Officers and Graduates of Yale University, 1701-1924* (New Haven: Yale University, 1955), 336.  

[^2]:“Institut Guy-Joseph-Bonnet,” Le Matin, August 2, 1932, 3; ”La Foi Bahá’íe: La Révélation divine pour ce Jour,” *Le Nouvelliste*, May 12, 1950, 6; “Au Fil Des Jours…,” *Le Nouvelliste*, November 9, 1968, 4.   
