# Grace Lucille Fisher
## Attended Yale School of Music 1922-1924

Grace Lucille Fisher was born on July 14, 1902, to Joseph Bell Fisher and Rose Prioleau in New Haven, Connecticut. According to the 1920 U.S. Census, Joseph worked for the city as a letter carrier. Growing up in New Haven, Fisher attended New Haven High School before enrolling at the Yale School of Music. She attended the Yale School of Music from 1922 to 1924. While at Yale, on June 6, 1923, Fisher received the Lucy Bell Woodward Prize for excellence in the theory of music at Woolsey Hall. In 1924, Fisher played the piano at a surprise birthday party for Reverend Edward Franklin Goin, an early Black Yale graduate.[^1]  

Fisher eventually moved to Buffalo and began a career as a social worker. In 1936, she was invited to join a committee of other Black Buffalonians on programming for Black youth in the city. She joined Buffalo’s chapter of the National Urban League and was a member of their executive board. She was also active in the church community, assisting in Lloyd Memorial Congregational Church’s fundraising drive and overseeing the church's Young People’s Society and the Girl Reserve Club. She continued her education at the University of Buffalo, graduating *cum laude* in 1938. In 1939, as a member of the Niagara Frontier Chapter of Social Workers, she oversaw housing accommodations for African American members attending a national conference in Buffalo.[^2] 

In 1946, she married Reverend Osmond Henry Brown of St. Philip’s Episcopal Church in Buffalo. Brown died in 1961. Fisher later married Robert Reynolds. She died in Rutland, Vermont on March 28, 1968, and was buried in Forest Lawn Cemetery.[^3] 

Image citation: *Crisis* magazine, August 1938.

[^1]: "United States, Census, 1920", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MCNX-4N9 : Wed Oct 22 00:55:54 UTC 2025), Entry for Joseph B Fisher and Rosa Fisher, 1920; *Crescent Annual, Nineteen Hundred Fifteen and Sixteen*, 40; *Alumni Directory of Yale University, 1926* (New Haven: Yale University, 1926), 555; “Pres. Angell Awards Prizes At Music School Concert: Large Crowd Fills Woolsey For Annual Commencement Exercises Last Night,” *Yale Daily News*, June 7, 1923, 2; “Party for the Rev. Mr. Goins,” *The Chicago Defender*, August 23, 1924, 15.  

[^2]: “Buffalo,” *The Chicago Defender*, March 7, 1936, 17; H. Daniel Lang to Congress of Racial Equality, January 14, 1947, in "Inquiries, Executive Secretary's File." In Congress of Racial Equality Papers: 1941-1976; Series 3: Executive Secretary's File, 1941-1962, 1952; “Church Drive Opened: $20,000 Sought to Remodel Lloyd’s Memorial Congregation Edifice,” *The Buffalo News*, March 3, 1928, 20; “Celebrate Pastor’s 12th Anniversary: Congregational Church Schedule Number of Events,” *The Buffalo Times*, June 3, 1933, 14; “City-Wide Y.W.C.A. Staff Hears Miss Williams Friday: Secretary in National Division Addresses Luncheon Meeting Today; Guests Invited to Event,” *The Buffalo Times*, February 21, 1935, 9; “The American Negro In College,” *The Crisis* 45, no. 8 (August 1938), 260; “New York State News: Buffalo,” *New York Amsterdam News*, May 27, 1939, 6.  

[^3]: “Last Rites Held For Father O. H. Brown Wednesday Dec. 27: Cited As Sincere And Loyal; Demise Called Irreparable,” *The Buffalo Criterion*, December 30, 1961, 1; "Vermont, Vital Records, 1760-2008", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:KF12-PD8 : Tue Mar 11 17:19:08 UTC 2025), Entry for Grace Reynolds and Joseph Fisher, 29 March 1968.  


