# Baxter Leget Matthews
## Graduate of Yale Divinity School, 1939

Baxter Leget Matthews was born on April 22, 1895, in Kernersville, North Carolina to Earnest Matthews and Lucy Hairston. His father worked as a day laborer. He attended local students and also attended North Carolina Agricultural and Technical College in Greensboro, NC to study floriculture. He attended Virgina Union University and graduated from the school’s academy in 1919 and received a bachelor’s of divinity in 1922. In that same year, he married Sarah Elizabeth Callaway and began his pastorate career as an assistant pastor of Zion Baptist Church in Phoebus, Virginia. He moved to Stamford, Connecticut, the following year where he pastored for the Union Baptist Church.[^1]

During his time in Stamford, he became a community leader for locals. He was an active participant in Stamford City Hall where he spoke on behalf of the Black citizens of the city to the mayor and city council. He would advocate for the passage of the Equal Rights Bill in Connecticut and fought to ensure that it was enforced for Black people. He was also part of many community organizations including the Chamber of Commerce, Needy Children’s Camp and the Community Chest. In Stamford, he was also the first Black candidate to run in the Republican primary for the Board of Education. He received an honorary doctorate of divinity from Virginia Union University in 1936. While in Connecticut, he enrolled at the Yale Divinity School, graduating in 1939. After a seventeen year career at the Zion Baptist Church, he resigned his position to pastor the Union Baptist Church in Baltimore, Maryland.[^2]

He was recommended by Reverend Adam Clayton Powell, a Yale Divinity graduate, to the position where he believed Matthew was a man “sent by god”. His wife, Sarah, died in 1940. He remarried the same year to Anna Mae Wilder. He also took on leadership positions, serving on the Executive Committee of the NAACP’s chapter in Baltimore, a board member of the Visitor’s Board at John Hopkins Hospital, and a member of the Baptist Ministers Conference of Baltimore. He also taught philosophy at Morgan State University. He was affiliated with the Masons and Alpha Phi Alpha.[^3]

In 1967, after 27 years of pastoring over the Union Baptist Church, he resigned. Matthews died in 1984 at the age of 89.[^4]


[^1]:"North Carolina, County Marriages, 1762-2011 ", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:QP9T-PJWG : Fri Feb 14 06:46:39 UTC 2025), Entry for Earnest Mathis and Bill Mathis, 1 July 1894; "United States, Census, 1910", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:ML3D-D27 : Wed Aug 13 18:16:39 UTC 2025), Entry for Ernest Matthews and Lucy Matthews, 1910; "Ohio, County Marriages, 1789-2016", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:X8L1-GFL : Sun Mar 10 06:52:50 UTC 2024), Entry for Baxter Leget Matthews and Sarah Elizabeth Callaway, 1923; “Traveled 36,224 Miles To Secure Training For Christian Ministry,” _New Pittsburgh Courier_, July 22, 1939, 14. 
[^2]:“Honored,” The New York Age, June 27, 1936, 3; “Rev. Baxter Matthews, Former Phoebus Pastor, Gets Degree from Yale,” _New Journal and Guide_, July 1, 1939, 4; “Baltimore Church Calls Rev. B. L. Matthews: Union Baptist Selects New England Pastor,” _New Pittsburgh Courier_, January 20, 1940, 14. 
[^3]:Azzie Briscoe Koger, Negro Baptists of Maryland. Baltimore, MD: Clark Press, 1946, 49. “Install Union Baptist Pastor, The Rev. A. C. Powell Inducts the Rev. Baxter L. Matthews,” _Afro-American_, April 27, 1940, 22; Azzie Briscoe Koger, _The Union Baptist Church of Baltimore and the Ministers Who Made Her Famous_. Baltimore: n.p., 1941. 
[^4]:“Baxter L. Matthews Pastor at Union Baptist,” _The Sun_, June 1, 1984, B7.

