# Édouard Alexander Pétrus
## Research Fellow at Yale School of Medicine circa 1927-1929

Édouard Alexander Pétrus was born in 1895 in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Prior to his enrollment at Yale, he worked as a professor of bacteriology at Haiti’s National School of Medicine and Pharmacy. Alongside Maurice Lafleur, he received funding from the Rockefeller Foundation for a research fellowship at Yale School of Medicine. He studied at Yale from 1927 to 1929. While at Yale, he worked with Professor George Hathorn Smith and John Rodman Paul where he studied immunology, bacteriology, and microscopy.[^1] 

He later returned to Haiti, where in 1932, he directed a fee-based laboratory at Haiti’s National School of Medicine and Pharmacy. Pétrus later represented Haiti within the World Health Organization and the United Nations Children's Fund. In 1950, Pétrus became the Director of the Yaws Eradication Service. According to reports, Petrus made an exceptional effort in following up with patients. One account reported how Pétrus travelled for several days on horse for a clinical checkup for one patient. According to Pétrus, the prevalence of yaws was reduced to less than 0.5%.[^2] 

Pétrus became a celebrity in Haiti and was credited for the eradication of yaws in the country. In 1957, he was nominated to succeed the acting president of Haiti who resigned. In the end, Pétrus lost to Franck Sylvain by a vote of 23 to 13. It is believed that Édouard Pétrus died in 1959, sometime between his arrival from New York on May 30, 1959, and his wife receiving a pension for Pétrus’ public service on October 15, 1959.[^3] 

[^1]:"New York, New York Passenger and Crew Lists, 1909, 1925-1958", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:24F9-4CG: Sat Apr 12 07:39:19 UTC 2025), Entry for Edouard A Petrus, 1929; *The Health of Haiti: A Review of the Fiscal Year, 1929-1930* (Port-au-Prince: Service Technique, 1930), 17; *Annual Report of the Director General of the Public Health for the Fiscal Year*, 1930, 28.  

[^2]:Le Nouvelliste, June 10, 1932, 6; “It Happened In New York,” The Black Dispatch, December 12, 1953, 6; “Le Dr. Pétrus remplace le Dr. Levidan,”Le Nouvelliste, April 3, 1950, 1; “Repository Penicillin Therapy of Yaws in the Haitian Peasant: A Clinical and Serologic Survey,” *Journal of Investigative Dermatology* 14, no. 4 (April 1950), 246; *Current Literature On Venereal Disease: An Annotated Bibliography*, 1956, 60.  

[^3]:Bernard Diederich and Al Burt, *Papa Doc and the Tontons Macoutes* (Princeton: Markus Wiener Publishers, 2005), 87; “Sylvain Heads Shaky Government of Haiti,” Chicago Defender, February 16, 1; *Haiti Sun*, May 31, 1959, 10; *Le Moniteur*, October 15, 1959, 1. 
