# Thomas Boyne Patterson 
## Attended Yale School of Medicine 1891-1892 

Thomas Boyne Patterson was born on January 15, 1866, to Aaron Patterson and Martha Fenton in Columbia, South Carolina. According to the 1870 U.S. Census, his mother worked as a laundress and raised the family alone. He attended the Hampton Institute, graduating in 1890, and enrolled at Yale School of Medicine in 1891 but only remained at the school for a year. While at Yale, he lived at the same address as James Robert Spurgeon, one of his Hampton Institute classmates who was attending the Yale Law School. After leaving Yale, he would spend some time teaching at Calhoun Industrial School in Alabama and then worked as a Pullman porter for five years. He later attended Pennsylvania State College where he studied agriculture.[^1] 

In 1903, Patterson took over an abandoned farm in Hegins Valley, Pennsylvania and began to develop the land. The following year, Patterson married Ella E. Entry at St. Marks Church in Jersey City, Jersey. Patterson became a successful farmer, inviting *The New York Age* to his farm in the summer of 1907 to provide his insights into farming. He wrote a letter to the newspaper and shared his appreciation of owning a farm despite living in a predominantly white community and being one of the only Black farmers in the region. He also reported that he was one of the only Black people on the Pennsylvania State Grange. In 1908. He was invited to the Eighth Annual Session of the National Negro Business League at Topeka Kansas and spoke on “Developing a Small Farm.”[^2] 

*The New York Age* did a 1912 story on the work Patterson completed in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania. Patterson managed to convert his abandoned six-acre farm into a productive farm. He implemented his own crop rotation system and began to share his method with other farmers in the region. In 1912, Patterson was elected treasurer of the Colored Farmers’ Alliance of Pennsylvania. Patterson left his farm in 1913 and became a farm manager at Downingtown Industrial and Agricultural School in Downingtown, Pennsylvania. He was invited to oversee the agricultural exhibition at the 1913 Pennsylvania Emancipation Celebration.[^3] 

In 1916, he moved to Salisbury, North Carolina, where he became a professor at Livingstone College’s agricultural department. He soon left the school and became an agricultural agent, assisting African American farmers on best agricultural practices. On April 19, 1918, Thomas Boyne Patterson and 22 Black farmers established the Piedmont Credit Union, the first African American credit union in the United States, in Landis, North Carolina. After helping establish the first one, Patterson helped establish three more African American credit unions. In 1920, he wrote to *The Southern Workman* on the model of a credit union and highlighted the benefits of a credit union system.[^4]     

He also travelled the South assisting Black farmers by providing farm demonstration and trainings. In 1922, he based himself at Virginia State College and served as a district farm agent for the United States Farm Demonstration Work program. He also assisted in the promotion of the 4-H Clubs in Virginia to encourage youth development.[^5] 

Patterson died on December 22, 1943, in Ettrick, Virginia and was buried in Eastview Cemetery in Petersburg, Virginia. He bequeathed $5,500 to various institutions in Virginia. In commemoration, the Virginia Association of Soil Conversation named the Thomas B. Patterson Memorial Soil Conservation Contest after Patterson’s work in uplifting Black farmers in Virginia.[^6] 

[^1]:"United States, Census, 1870", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:M8RR-VFZ: Sat Oct 18 06:41:45 UTC 2025), Entry for Martha Patterson and Saml Patterson, 1870; "Virginia, Death Certificates, 1912-1987", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:QVRC-Q6HH: Tue Mar 11 17:58:52 UTC 2025), Entry for Thomas B Patterson and Aaron Patterson, 24 Dec 1943; *Negro Organizations and Leadership In Relation to Rural Life In Virginia* (Blacksburg: Virginia Polytechnic Institute, 1933), 75; “Barren Land Made Valuable: Thomas B. Patterson Shows White Agriculturists How To Do It,” The New York Age, December 12, 1912, 1.  

[^2]:Episcopal Diocese of Newark; Newark, New Jersey; New Jersey, Episcopal Diocese of Newark Church Records, 1800 – 1970, 8; “Alone Among White People,” *The New York Age*, March 7, 1912, 4; “Negro Business League: Its Eighth Annual Session, Programme of Exercises Great Papers To Be Read, Receptions and Entertainments,” *The Washington Bee*, August 3, 1907, 5.  

[^3]:“Barren Land Made Valuable: Thomas B. Patterson Shows White Agriculturists How To Do It,” *The New York Age*, December 12, 1912, 1; “To Interest The Colored People Of City,” *The Philadelphia Tribune*, July 13, 1912, 1; “Our Farmers In The North,” *The New York Age*, July 17, 1913, 4.  

[^4]:“Washington Letter,” *The New York Age*, January 3, 1917, 5; Sylvia M. Jacobs, “James Emman Kwegyir Aggrey: An African Intellectual in the United States,” *The Journal of Negro History* 81, no. 1/4 (1996), 57; “Negro Cred Unions Numerous In North Carolina; One Operates As Interracial,” *The New York Age*, January 25, 1947, 2; Thomas Boyne Patterson, “Negro Credit Unions of North Carolina,” *The Southern Workman* 49, no. 4 (April 1920), 180-183. 

[^5]:“Short Course In Farm and Homemaking at Hampton In.,” *The New York Age*, September 25, 1926, 3; “Rights And Duties In A Democracy: Thomas B. Patterson—Farm Leader,” *New Journal and Guide*, February 5, 1944, 6; “Death Takes Widely Known Farm Agent: T.B. Patterson Dies In 77th Year At State College,” *New Journal and Guide*, January 1, 1944, B3.  

[^6]:"Virginia, Death Certificates, 1912-1987", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:QVRC-Q6HH: Tue Mar 11 17:58:52 UTC 2025), Entry for Thomas B Patterson and Aaron Patterson, 24 Dec 1943; “Leaves $5,500 To Virginia Colleges,” *The Chicago Defender*, March 4, 1944, 6; “Albermarle Farmer Wins Soil Contest,” *New Journal and Guide*, August 21, 1948, 14. 
