# John William Hudspeth
## Attended Yale Law School 1901-1902

John William Hudspeth was born in Franklin, Kentucky in 1872 to Louis Hudspeth and Martha Hudspeth. According to the 1880 U.S. Census, Louis worked in farming. Hudspeth attended Kentucky State University, graduating in 1900 with a bachelor’s degree. He enrolled at Yale Law School in 1901.[^1] 

At Yale, Hudspeth was a member of The Southern Club, comprised of Yale’s Southern students. Hudspeth also expressed interest in joining Yale baseball’s freshman nine as first baseman. He eventually joined the Yale Law School Base Ball Association as an infielder. In February 1902, Hudspeth joined a Yale checker tournament but lost in the preliminary round. He remained in contention after defeating another Yale student and was under consideration for the Yale Checker Team. He was also a member of the Wayland Club, where he debated for the affirmative on a resolution to establish reciprocity between the United States and Canada on February 20, 1902. He only studied at Yale for the 1901-1902 school year and moved to New York City.[^2] 

He married Ethelene Pembleton in Manhattan in 1904. In New York, Hudspeth worked with the Pullman Car Company as a porter at Grand Central Terminal. He eventually worked for the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad and was elected as vice president of the Lackawanna Railroad Attendants organization in 1910. He also became an instructor for the Cosmopolitan Automobile School in New York where he would own the school for a year. He reported to *The New York Age* of the tendency of white garage owners to discriminate against Black chauffeurs and praised garages owned by Blacks.[^3] 

On August 13, 1913, Hudspeth married Carrie V. Hill, a prominent African American businesswoman. In 1914, Hudspeth moved to East Orange, New Jersey and opened a real estate business. Alongside his business, he was active within the Young Men’s Christian Association. Hudspeth was also active within the Negro league baseball scene. Throughout his life, he provided commentary, scouted, and served as club manager for different New Jersey and New York teams. The New York Age reported that Hudspeth had once worked for the New York Bacharach Giants as a scout and offered to buy the team in 1924.[^4] 

Hudspeth was also an active member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), serving as vice president of the East Orange chapter as early as 1915. On August 13, 1920, Hudspeth participated in the Universal Negro Improvement Association’s Convention in Madison Square Garden. He was a signatory to the Declaration of Rights of the Negro Peoples of the World. Hudspeth continued to affiliate with Yale, attending a dinner of Yale’s Essex County Alumni Association in 1926. Hudspeth was also affiliated with the National Negro Business League and Federation of Colored Organizations of New Jersey.[^5] 

Hudspeth joined the Republican Party and was active within Republican politics in New Jersey. He was elected vice president of the Essex County Colored Republican Association in 1915. He became president of the Third Ward Colored Republican Club of East Orange in 1924. He wrote an endorsement for Fred R. Moore, editor of *The New York Age*, for New York City alderman.[^6] 

Hudspeth died on September 7, 1934, in East Orange.[^7] 

Image citation: *Yale Shingle*, 1902, Lillian Goldman Law Library, Yale University.

[^1]:"United States, Census, 1880", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MCZT-P7F: Wed Jan 15 01:14:30 UTC 2025), Entry for Lue Hudspeth and Martha Hudspeth, 1880; *Catalogue of Yale University: 1901-1902* (New Haven: The Tuttle Morehouse & Taylor Co., 1901), 643 

[^2]:*The Yale Banner* 60 (New Haven: Yale University, 1901), 388; “List of Men who Have Reported as Candidates for the Freshman Nine,” *Yale Daily News*, February 13, 1902, 1; *The Yale Shingle*, 1902 (New Haven: Ryder’s Printing House, 1902), 147; “Checker Tournament,” *Yale Daily News*, February 11, 1902, 1; “Checker Tournament,” *Yale Daily News*, February 17, 1902, 1; “Checker Match,” *Yale Daily News*, April 9, 1902, 3; “Law School Debating,” *Yale Daily News*, February 21, 1902, 1. 

[^3]:"New York, New York City Marriage Records, 1829-1938", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:24ML-XV3: Fri Jul 25 11:35:53 UTC 2025), Entry for John Hudspeth and Ethlene Pembleton, 25 January 1904; “The News of Greater New York,” *The New York Age*, July 22, 1909, 7; “Attendants Elect Officers,” *The New York Age*, June 13, 1912, 1; “Garages Draw Line: Charges that Colored Chauffeurs Are Discriminated Against True, but Colored Men Are Now Conducting Thriving Garage Establishments as the Result,” *The New York Age*, November 30, 1911, 1.  

[^4]:“Hudspeth-Hill,” *The New York Age*, August 14, 1913, 8; “The Oranges, N. J.,” The New York Age, May 28, 1914; “J. W. Hudspeth To Purchase The N.Y. Bacharach Giants,” The New York Age, February 16, 1924, 6.  

[^5]:*The Crisis* 9, no. 6 (April 1915), 302; Robert Hill, eds., *The Marcus Garvey And Universal Negro Improvement Association Papers: The Caribbean Diaspora, 1920-1921*, vol. 12 (Durham: Duke University Press, 2014), 39; *The Yale Alumni Weekly* 35, no. 34 (May 1926), 968; “Jersey City, New Jersey,” *The Afro-American*, June 30, 1928, 17; “New Jersey Business Men Name Delegates To National Business League,” *The New York Age*, August 11, 1928, 2.   

[^6]:“Political Notes,” *Newark Evening Star*, October 14, 1915, 6; “Candidacy Of Fred R. Moore For The Board Of Aldermen, New York City, Attracting Countrywide Attention,” *The New York Age*, November 5, 1927, 1, 4.   

[^7]:“John W. Hudspeth Dead,” *The New York Age*, September 15, 1934, 5. 

 
