# Sidney Albert Smith
## Attended Yale College 1903-1904

Sidney Albert Smith was born in 1871 to Harry and Sophia Smith in Pittsboro, Mississippi. According to the 1880 U.S. Census, Sidney was raised by his widowed mother, Sophia, and worked on the farm with his siblings. Sidney was the uncle of William Washington Nolen, another Black student who attended Yale Law School. He was an member of the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church (now Christian Methodist Episcopal).[^1] 

According to *The New York Age*, Smith was attacked by a white mob while residing in Big Creek, Mississippi with his mother. He sustained a broken skull and three broken ribs as well as internal damage to his body. Despite lasting impacts from the brutal assault, Smith continued to pursue an education. He attended Lane College for four years before enrolling at Yale College as a member of the Class of 1907. He was officially enrolled at Yale College for the 1903-1904 school year, but it is unclear if he attended classes. *The New York Age* reported that "an eminent physician stated that the injuries on his head were the cause of...gradual mental decline" and "he became completely insane before the opening of the school year." [^2] 

By the time of the 1910 U.S. Census, Sidney was reportedly institutionalized as a patient at Dannemora State Hospital in Dannemora, New York. He died on December 2, 1913, at the state hospital from tuberculosis.[^3]  

[^1]:"United States, Census, 1880", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:M4G9-WQP : Thu Jan 16 15:59:25 UTC 2025), Entry for Sophia Smith and John Smith, 1880. 

[^2]:“Brillian Man Dies From Mob Violence,” *The New York Age*, December 11, 1913, 2. 

[^3]:"United States, Census, 1910", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:M5Z5-JYF : Wed Aug 13 18:04:15 UTC 2025), Entry for Charles Smith and Christopher Smith, 1910; “Alumni Notes,” *The Yale Alumni Weekly* 36, no. 4 (October 1926), 106. 
