# Arthur Chester Clarke
## Attended Yale Divinity School 1828-1931

Arthur Chester Clarke was born December 23, 1904, to Walter B. Loving Clarke and Bessie Davis in Atlanta, Georgia. His father, Reverend W. B. L. Clarke was a pastor for the African Methodist Episcopal Church. He attended Morris Brown University in Atlanta. According to his yearbook, he was president of the Phi Beta Sigma fraternity, captain of the football team, editor-in-chief, and president of the College Men’s Club and the YMCA.[^1]

Following his graduation from Morris Brown in 1927, he enrolled at Yale Divinity School. At the Divinity School, he won the Mersick Prize Scholarship for his academic achievements during the 1928 term. Alongside his studies at Yale Divinity School, Clarke was an employee at the Dixwell Community House. With the Dixwell Players of New Haven, he put on his own play, “Suds”, at the community house. In 1930, he was discharged from Winchester Sanitarium and returned home to Atlanta. He succumbed to his illness and died on January 14, 1931, of chronic pneumococic septicemia. He is buried in South-View Cemetery in Atlanta.[^2]

[^1]:“_The Aurora Yearbook_, 1927”. Morris Brown College Yearbooks, 1920-1939. Morris Brown College, 1927. Atlanta University Center Robert W. Woodruff Library. http://hdl.handle.net/20.500.12322/auc.007.aurora:1927.
[^2]:“Recipients of Scholarship Awards In Yale Divinity School Announced,” _The Yale Daily News_, October 30, 1929, 5; “The Northeast,” _The Crisis_ 36, no. 6 (June 1929); “New Haven,” _Tattler_, October 11, 1929, 11; “New Haven,” _Tattler_, June 13, 1930, 13; "Georgia, Deaths, 1928-1943", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:QJX9-NXCT : Tue Jul 09 16:51:45 UTC 2024), Entry for Arthur Clarke and W B Clarke, 14 Jan 1931; “Funeral Notices,” _The Atlanta Constitution_, January 17, 1931, 20.

