# Helen Lou Evelyn James Chisholm 
## Attended Yale Summer School 1907-1908 

Helen Lou James was born in Hartford, Connecticut on September 1, 1876, to Willis Samuel James and Anna Estelle Houston. Her father, Willis, was born a slave before moving to Hartford, Connecticut where he worked as a janitor for a public school. She attended Hartford Public School and, later, the Hampton Institute.  She graduated from the Normal Class in 1900. She planned on attending the University of California but decided to teach domestic science at the Kona Orphanage in Hawaii.[^1] 

At the Kona Orphanage, she served as a teacher and assistant administrator before overseeing the school in 1903. She met Frederick Douglass Bonner, a 1901 graduate of Yale College, in Honolulu as he was on his way to teach in the Philippines. She also met Queen Liluokalani in Hawaii. On her way back, she visited Edward Bouchet, another Black Yale graduate, in St. Louis. Upon her return home, she attended Atlanta University before moving to St. Helena Island in South Carolina to teach at the Penn Normal Industrial School in 1906. She later moved to Tallahassee to teach at Florida Agricultural and Mechanical College where she taught grammar. During the summer of 1907, James attended Yale Summer School and resided at 75 Edgewood Avenue. While at Yale, she studied theme writing and American literature. She returned to Hartford after spending two years at the Penn Normal Industrial School.[^2] 

In 1910, she married Frank Pierce Chisholm, who she met while attending Atlanta University. The couple lived in Cambridge, Massachusetts before moving to Old Saybrook, Connecticut. During the 1920s, she was an active participant with New London’s Women’s Christian Temperance Union where she gave talks at the Young Women’s Christian Association. In 1936, she was elected treasurer of the Hampton Institute Alumni Association.[^3] 

She died on March 8, 1971, and is buried in Cypress Cemetery in Old Saybrook.[^4] 

Image citation: From CT Insider (https://www.ctinsider.com/opinion/article/Looking-Back-Funding-the-future-Saybrook-man-16957857.php), original source unknown.


[^1]:Elisabeth Perry, *Can Anything Beat White?: A Black Family’s Letters* (Jackson: University Press of Mississippi, 2005). 

[^2]:Elisabeth Perry, *Can Anything Beat White?: A Black Family’s Letters* (Jackson: University Press of Mississippi, 2005); “St. Luke’s Church of New Haven Elects New Pastor,” The New York Age, July 25, 1907, 1; Holiday Entertainment,” The New York Age, July 16, 1908, 3. 

[^3]:“’Negro Cannot Afford To Be Too Shy,’ Dean of N.Y.U. Declares: Members of Race Must Pay the Price for Getting Up in the World, Dean Payne Tells Hampton Conference,” *The New York Amsterdam News*, May 2, 1936, 5.  

[^4]:https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/136078198/helen-lou-chisholm. 
