# Francis Henry Hill
## Attended Yale Divinity School, 1898-1900

Francis Henry Hill, also known as Frank H. Hill, was born on March 1, 1867, to Robert and Margaret Hill in Fayetteville, North Carolina. According to the 1870 U.S. Census, Robert worked as a drayman and Margaret kept house. He received his education from the public schools and State Colored Normal School in Fayetteville (now Fayetteville State University). He married Joanna Hall in 1890 in Cumberland, North Carolina.[^1] 

In 1892, Hill began his lengthy service for the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, serving as pastor for Metropolitan Wesley Zion Church in Washington D.C. He was also enrolled at Howard University’s Theological Department in the 1893-1894 school year. While in D.C., *The Washington Post* highlighted Hill’s temperance activism within his congregation. In 1895, he was sent to oversee the AME Zion Church in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In 1896, he began pastoring at The People’s Church in Providence, Rhode Island. In that same year, he was also elected to serve as treasurer for AME Zion Sunday Schools of New England.[^2]      

In 1898, he was sent to New Haven’s AME Zion Church on Foote Street. His wife, Joanna, ran the King’s Daughters of the AME Zion Church. While serving the church, he attended Yale Divinity School. After two years, Hill gave a farewell sermon on June 3, 1900 and departed New Haven. The church provided a resolution celebrating his leadership in renovating church and adding sixty-two members to the congregation. The AME Zion Church Conference reassigned him from New Haven to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania to oversee Wesley Union Church.[^3] 

While in Harrisburg, Hill gained national attention for challenging Major Richard Henry Pratt, superintendent of the Carlisle Indian Industrial School and officer to the United States Army. Pratt made an address before the Cumberland County Teachers’ Institute and remarked that slavery had "developed" African Americans and brought them to “civilization.” Hill came out against Pratt and wrote to him, asking how he could justify slavery. *The New York Times* (which erroneously reported that Hill was a bishop) and several other newspapers reprinted Pratt's response to Hill, in which Pratt reiterated his racist claims:  

>“My Dear Brother Hill: What I said was that slavery had brought 10,000,000 blacks from the torrid zone into this enlightened country, taught them a new language, and prepared them by association for citizenship. I am beginning to question whether freedom for your people in the United States is going to be such a boon to you and to the United States…You certainly have no grounds to quarrel with slavery unless you regret being transplanted from the jungles of Africa and your low estate there to the citizenship, freedom, and intelligence in the United States you now enjoy, for slavery was the bridge that carried you over, and there was not, and is not, another bridge equal to that job.”[^4]    

In 1902, he was reassigned to Carlisle, Pennsylvania to oversee West Street AME Zion Church. He also received a doctor of divinity from Livingstone College in 1902. While in Pennsylvania, Hill was a member of the Grand Lodge of Colored Masons and was appointed grand chaplain. He left Carlisle on June 18, 1904, and went to Charlotte, North Carolina where he pastored for Grace Church. Alongside pastoring, he was an auditor and an editor of AME Zion Sunday School literature. According to a biographical account published in 1908, Hill was recognized for his technical abilities in assisting the church. He was also known for his carefully prepared sermons and his baritone singing.[^5] 

He continued to serve as auditor for the AME Zion Church while also teaching at the Tuskegee Institute’s Phelps Hall Bible School. After Booker T. Washington was attacked in New York City, Hill wrote a caring letter and expressed his gratitude to Washington. In 1913, Hill was sent to Montgomery and served as pastor of Hilliard Memorial Chapel AME Zion Church. On January 1, 1915, he was orator of the day at Alabama’s State Normal School for the anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation. He died on May 5, 1915, in Montgomery and buried in Charlotte, North Carolina.[^6]  


[^1]:"North Carolina, County Marriages, 1762-2011 ", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:QP9B-42WV: Sat Mar 09 23:20:59 UTC 2024), Entry for R F H Hill and Robert Hill, 21 December 1890; "United States, Census, 1870", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MW8F-D5C : Sat Oct 11 17:13:03 UTC 2025), Entry for Robert Hill and Margaret Hill, 1870.  

[^2]:Howard University, Washington, D.C.: Catalogue of the Officers And Students From March, 1893, To March, 1894 (Washington, D.C.: Howard University Press, 1894), 13; “Liquor The Negro’s Enemy: Rev. F. H. Hill Says Christians Should Not Sign Licenses,” _The Washington Post_, October 9 , 1893, 1; “The A.M.E. Zion Church: Changes in Pastorates Here Made by the Conference,” _The Evening Star_, May 27, 1895; “Colored Sunday Schools,” _The Meriden Daily Journal_, August 28, 1896, 5.  

[^3]:“Methodist Zion Appointments,” The Morning Journal-Courier, May 11, 1898, 3; “The King’s Daughters,” The Morning Journal-Courier, September 16, 1899; “His Farewell Sermon,” The Morning Journal-Courier, June 4, 1900, 2.  

[^4]:“Slavery’s Good To Negroes: Major Pratt Says It Was the Black’s Bridge to Civilization,” _The New York Times_, December 20, 1900, 2. 

[^5]:“Returned from Kentucky,” _The Sentinel_, September 5, 1902, 2; “Rev. Dr. Hill To Leave Carlisle,” _The Sentinel_, June 10, 1904, 7; “Rev. Dr. Hill To Leave Carlisle,” _The Sentinel_, June 10, 1904, 7; “Business At An End: A.M.E. Zion Board Of Bishops Adjourns,” The Evening Star, February 12, 1908, 16; James Harvey Anderson, Biographical Souvenir Volume of the Twenty-Third Quadrennial Session of the General Conference of the African Methodist Episcopal Church (Philadelphia, PA: Big Wesley A. M. E. Zion Church, 1908), 150. 

[^6]:“Colored Convention Closed This Morning: Over $150,000 Has Been Expended During Past Year in Church Extension Work,” _Knoxville Sentinel_, August 1911, 5; _Thirty-Second __Annual Catalogue: The Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute, 1912-1913_ (Tuskegee Institute: Institute Press, 1913), 8; Francis H. Hill to Booker T. Washington, 20 March 1911, _The Booker T. Washington Papers_, ed. Louis R. Harlan and Raymond W. Smock. Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press, Rotunda, 2021; “Goodly Lives Are Urged Upon Negro Ministers: Bishop Alstork Urges Study and Devotion to Duty,” _The Birmingham News_, November 22, 4; “Great Celebration,” _The Montgomery Times_, December 29, 1914, 2; “Pastor of Zion Methodist Church Dead,” _The Montgomery Times_, May 6, 1915, 8. 
