# John William Davis
## Attended Yale Divinity School 1902-1903

John William Davis was born on May 10, 1869, in Chatham County, North Carolina to Henry Davis and Martha Brooks. Not much has been found about Davis’s life prior to his ministry at New Haven. According to the 1900 U.S. Census, he was married to Sallie Brown, had three daughters, and worked as a preacher in Fulton County, Georgia.[^1]  

Previously a member of the Methodist Episcopal Church (M.E. Church), he joined the New England Conference of the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church (AME Zion Church) in May 1902. He moved to New Haven where he began pastoring Zion AME Church on Foote Street. He also enrolled at Yale Divinity School as a resident licentiate for the 1902-1903 school year. A May 1905 report by *The New York Age* reported that Davis was a popular pastor with the trustees providing “a unanimous vote for his retention.” Davis also led a fundraising effort for a new church for Zion AME Church on Dixwell Avenue and Charles Street. On May 2, 1906, Davis and Yale professor William Edwin Haesche hosted a benefit concert at the New Music Hall on Court Street. The concert included prominent white and Black artists from the city. In December 1906, he joined a committee with several prominent New Haveners and Black Yale graduates (Adam Clayton Powell, George Williamson Crawford, Eugene Leon Henderson, Isaac Napoleon Porter, and Edward Manning) against the production of *The Clansman*, a play that glorified the Ku Klux Klan.[^2] 

In 1907, Davis was transferred from Zion AME Church and was to be sent to a church in Poughkeepsie, New York. According to Davis, he was transferred because of his defense for President Theodore Roosevelt’s actions in the Brownsville Affair. Davis had refused to attend a mass meeting of the Constitution League, an African American political organization, which endorsed Senator Joseph Benson Foraker for the Republican nomination for the 1908 presidential election. George Crawford (Yale Law School) presided over the meeting, which included entertainment by Effie Grant and Helen Hagan (Yale School of Music). Davis told the *New-York Daily Tribune*:  

>“It was a deep, dark conspiracy…But I shall neither be driven from New Haven nor shall I abate my admiration one whit for Mr. Roosevelt and Booker T. Washington.”[^3] 

He was especially angered by the move as he spent much of his time and labor as pastor building a new church, and was removed before his project was finished. He resigned from the AMEZ Church on June 10, 1907. He rejoined the M.E. Church and became assistant pastor for John Wesley M.E. Church on Webster Street.[^4] 

By November of that year, he left New Haven and joined the North Carolina Conference of the ME Church. He oversaw a church in Mount Airy, North Carolina. In a 1913 district conference of the ME Church of Greensboro, Davis was elected as district president of the Epworth League and the Sunday School Convention. He died in the Laurinburg, North Carolina on April 14, 1914.[^5]    

[^1]:"North Carolina, Deaths, 1906-1930", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:F38V-551: Fri Jun 21 21:19:36 UTC 2024), Entry for John Wiiliam Davis and Henry Davis, 14 Apr 1914; "United States, Census, 1900", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:M3N5-SVR: Tue Oct 07 14:04:35 UTC 2025), Entry for John W Davis and Sallie Davis, 1900.  

[^2]:*Catalogue of Yale University, 1902-1903* (New Haven: The Tuttle, Morehouse & Taylor Company, 1902), 645; “Popularity of Rev. Davis—Two Deaths—Other News,” *The New York Age*, May 4, 1905, 1; “New Haven,” *The New York Age*, November 29, 1906, 8; “Have To Build New Church,” *The New York Age*, April 12, 1906, 1; “New Haven Notes: Chief of Police Wrinn Permits ‘The Clansman’ to Be Produced,” *The New York Age*, December 20, 1906, 6. 

[^3]:“Victim of ‘Deep, Dark Conspiracy,’: Negro Minister Says Support of President Lost Him His Job,” *New-York Daily Tribune*, June 12, 1907, 8.  

[^4]:“Secretary of War Taft Denounced as Enemy of Race: Mass Meeting in New Haven—Rev. Davis Resigns from Conference from Conference,” *The New York Age*, June 20, 1907, 1.  

[^5]:“First Separate Co.’s Dance: Annual Affair a Brilliant Success at Second Regiment Armory,” *The New York Age*, November 14, 1907, 8; “Colored People Hold A Church Convention Here,” *The Reidsville Review*, July 22, 1913, 4; "North Carolina, Deaths, 1906-1930", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:F38V-551: Fri Jun 21 21:19:36 UTC 2024), Entry for John Wiiliam Davis and Henry Davis, 14 Apr 1914. 

 
