# Richard Ishmael McKinney
## Received Ph.D., 1942

Richard Ishmael McKinney was born on August 20th, 1906, in Live Oak, Florida to George Patterson McKinney and Sallie Richard Ellis. Both McKinney's father and grandfather, Ishmael McKinney, were Baptist ministers. His parents were also educators, and his father served as the president of the Florida Institute in Daytona Beach. McKinney attended Morehouse Academy and later Morehouse College. At Morehouse, he was a member of the Glee Club. He graduated in 1931 and attended Pendle Hill, a Quaker school for social and religious research, in Wallingford, Pennsylvania. McKinney did fieldwork where he served on race relation committees and spoke at white churches and schools in Philadelphia.[^1] 

He graduated from Andover Newton Seminary with a bachelor of divinity in 1934 and master of sacred theology in 1937. While attending Andover Newton, he served as a supply pastor for Messiah Baptist Church in Brockton, Massachusetts and began pastoring at the Pond Street Baptist Church in Providence, Rhode Island. In 1935, he resigned his position to take a post at Virgina Union University as a faculty member. 

In an interview for HistoryMakers, he recounted taking a leave of absence from Virginia Union to begin attending Yale Graduate School in 1939. He recalled that his professors at Yale left a lasting impression on his understanding of social ethics and philosophy. He graduated from the Yale Graduate School with a dissertation on religion at Black colleges, later published as the book _Religion in Higher Education Among Negroes_ (1945).[^2] 

After graduating from Yale, he was named the dean for the school of religion at Virginia Union University. In 1943, he spoke at a state conference at the Virgina Commission on Interracial Cooperation. In 1944, McKinney was appointed president of Storer College, the first Black president of the school. When he moved to Harpers Ferry to take up his new position, there was a cross-burning intended to intimidate him. As president, he took part in the Quaker’s Visiting Lectureship, attending several predominantly white institutions to foster interracial relations.[^3] 

He resigned from the presidency in 1950. He was credited with increasing enrollment, improving course offerings, and obtaineing new buildings for the university. He joined Morgan State College in 1951 to chair the Department of Philosophy. In 1959, he took a year to study at Columbia University and the Sorbonne. In the same year, McKinney was made president of Phi Sigma Tau, a national honor society dedicated to philosophy. 

McKinney was married to Phyllis McKinney in 1933. She died in 1965. He was remarried to Lena R. Martin, a training officer in the Peace Corps, in 1967. The wedding was officiated by Benjamin E. Mays, president of Morehouse College. 

McKinney retired from Morgan State University in 1976, but continued serving as a lecturer and visiting professor at institutions including the University of Pennsylvania, the Medical College of Georgia, Bethune-Cookman College, and Howard University. He also served as president of Sigma Pi Phi from 1986 to 1988. In 2000, McKinney received an honorary doctor of humane letters from Morgan State University. He died in 2005 and is buried in East Side Memorial Cemetery in Live Oak, Florida.[^4] 

[^1]:_Journal of Black Sacred Music_ 1, no. 2 (1987), 38; “Rites Held for Mother of Johnson C. Smith Dean,” _Atlanta Daily World_, September 25, 1951, 1; “Georgia State,” _The Chicago Defender_, May 3, 1930, Part 2, 10; “Student in Social Work Visits South,” _The Chicago Defender_, July 11, 1931, 3.  

[^2]:“59 Receive Degrees In N. E. Schools,” _Afro-American_, June 30, 1934, 1; Philadelphia Tribune, June 13, 1942, 10; _Andover Newton Bulletin_ 26, no. 4 (1934), 1; “Accepts Pastorate Of Pond St. Flock,” May 31, 1934, 13; Richard I. McKinney (The HistoryMakers A2003.119), interviewed by Larry Crowe, June 5, 2003, The HistoryMakers Digital Archive. Session 1, tape 4, story 4, Richard McKinney remembers influential instructors from his graduate years at Yale University. 

[^3]:“R. I. McKinney Named Dean Of Religion,” _New Journal and Guide_, July 5, 1941, 11; “Virgina Interracial Commission Conference Dec. 7,” _New Journal and Guide_, December 4, 1943; “Dr. McKinney Installed,” _New York Herald Tribune_, November 19, 1944, 5; Dawne Raines Burke, “Storer College: A Hope for Redemption in the Shadow of Slavery, 1865-1955.” PhD diss., Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University, 2004, 298; “Goodwill Lecturers Begin Tours Of White Schools And Colleges,” _The Chicago Defender_, October 25, 1947, 4. 

[^4]:“Dr. R. I. McKinney Resigns As President Of Storer,” _New Journal and Guide_, April 15, 1950, 20; “15 New Teachers On Morgan Staff,” _Atlanta Daily World_, September 14, 1951, 3; “Dr. McKinney Heads National Honor Society,” _The Sun_, May 29, 1959, 8; “Notes and News,” Philosophy and Phenomenological Research 19, no. 4 (1959), 561; Funeral program for Dr. Richard Ismael McKinney, who died October 28, 2005, 2005, African American Funeral Programs Collection, Digital Maryland State Library Resource Center, image 4, https://collections.digitalmaryland.org/digital/collection/acfp/id/17858; “Mrs. Phyllis McKinney,” _The Sun_, May 30, 1965, 8; “Lena Martin Married,” _New York Amsterdam News_, August 12, 1967, 9; Funeral program, image 4, https://collections.digitalmaryland.org/digital/collection/acfp/id/17858; https://commencement.morgan.edu/honorary-degrees/; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/208076106/richard-ishmael-mckinney. 

 Image citation: _The Daily Item_, April 24, 1928
