# George Dennis Kelsey
## Received Ph.D., 1946

George Dennis Kelsey was born to Reverend Andrew Zadok Kelsey and Marie Hayward Jones in Columbus, Georgia in 1910. The family later moved to Griffin, Georgia. His father was a Baptist minister and headmaster of the Cabin Creek School in Spalding, Georgia, and his mother was a teacher at the school. George graduated from Cabin Creek in 1928 as the valedictorian and enrolled at his father’s alma mater, Morehouse College. He married Leola B. Hanks in 1930 while attending Morehouse. He was also a member of the Morehouse College quartet as second bass. He would go on to sing for Franklin Delano Roosevelt on three separate occasions at the president’s private house in Warm Springs, Georgia and twice at the White House. Alongside his studies, he was a minister for the Wheat Street Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia. He graduated from Morehouse with high honors in 1934 and enrolled at the Andover Newton Theological Seminary the same year.[^1]   

During his time at Andover Newton, he was the vice president of the student association. He was nominated as president but declined the position. He graduated from the seminary with a bachelors of divinity in 1937, writing a thesis on the impact western economics had on African tribes. He served as the orator at graduation and was the only member to graduate *cum laude*. He began pursuing a doctorate at Yale in 1937, but postponed his studies to return to Morehouse and join the faculty of the School of Religion. He received a Rosenwald Scholarship to continue attending Yale Graduate School in 1943. He wrote his dissertation on the social thought of Southern Baptists and received his Ph.D. in 1946. He was selected to be the director of the Morehouse School of Religion in 1945.[^2] 

Kelsey and Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. shared a lifelong friendship which began at Morehouse. King took Kelsey’s introductory course on the Bible where he received his first "A" at Morehouse. When King applied to Crozer Theological Seminary in 1948, Kelsey wrote a letter of recommendation to the dean, acknowledging King's academic shortcomings but emphaisizing his good character, perseverance at school, and his great potential as a minister. In 1956, King recognized Benjamin Mays, president of Morehouse, and George Kelsey in an article in _Redbook_. Kelsey would later send a letter congratulating MLK on his Montgomery Bus Boycott and enclosed a check to support his efforts with MLK writing a reply of thanks. When King published the book _Stride Toward Freedom: The Montogomery Story_, he took Kelsey's suggestion to emphasize Christianity as a driving force behind the bus boycott. In 1964, Martin Luther King Jr. visited Drew University and was photographed with Kelsey.[^3] 

Kelsey continued to teach at Morehouse College until 1948 when he joined the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America and became the Associate Executive Secretary in Field Administration. He also served as a Trustee to the Board of the Newton Theological Institute from 1949 to 1953. In 1952, he joined Drew University in Madison, New Jersey and became the first African American to teach at Drew full-time. When a hotel in Haverhill, Massachusetts declined Kelsey a room, the Massachusetts Baptist Convention canceled their reservation. In 1957, he traveled to Switzerland as a member of the World Council of Churches’ Commission of Christians on the Prevention of Atomic War. He received a fellowship to study at the Harvard Divinity School for the 1958-1959 academic year to study theology, philosophical ethics, and sociology.[^4]  

During his time in New Jersey, he was a member of the Morris County Urban League. In 1970, he received an honorary Doctor of Philosophy from Morehouse. He retired from Drew University in 1976. He was invited to oversee the opening prayer for the United States Senate in 1979. Kelsey died on April 3, 1996, in Madison, New Jersey.[^5] 

[^1]:https://www.facebook.com/griffinhistory/photos/a.10153910113648850/10158878913973850; “Last Rites For Kelsey In Griffin,” _New Pittsburgh Courier_, March 3, 1951, 13; E. Axel Larsson, “George Kelsey,” Drew History Wiki, https://uknow.drew.edu/confluence/display/DrewHistory/George+Kelsey; “Roosevelt And Guest Enjoy College Four,” _The Houston Informer and the Texas Freeman_, December 9, 1933, 1; “Personals,” _Atlanta Daily World_, June 7, 1934, 3.  

[^2]:“Honor Grad,” Atlanta Daily World, June 27, 1937, 1; “Three Morehouse Grads to Faculty Of Alma Mater,” _The Call_, September 30, 1938, 24; “Seven Georgians Get Rosenwald Annual Awards,” _Atlanta Daily World_, May 15, 1943, 1; “George D. Kelsey Receives PH. D. From Yale,” _The Black Dispatch_, August 3, 1946, 4; “George D. Kelsey Is Heading Morehouse School of Religion,” _New Pittsburgh Courier_, October 6, 1945, 10.  

[^3]:George D. Kelsey to Charles E. Batten, March 12, 1948 in The Martin Luther King, Jr. Research and Education Institute, https://kinginstitute.stanford.edu/king-papers/documents/george-d-kelsey-charles-e-batten; The Papers of Martin Luther King, Jr., Volume III: Birth of a New Age, December 1955-December 1956 (Berkely, CA: University of California Press, 1997) 164-165; “Drew Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow: Martin Luther King Jr. Speaks at Drew,” _The Drew Acorn_, February 3, 2023.   

[^4]:“Morehouse Dean Of Religion To New Post July 1,” _Atlanta Daily World_, May 30, 1948, 6; “Dr. Kelsey Named Trustee Of Newton Theological Institute,” _Atlanta Daily World_, August 14, 1949, 2; “Kelsey, Ex-M’house Prof. Given Post At Drew Univ.,” _Atlanta Daily World_, January 27, 1952, 1; “Racial Issue Cancels Hotel Reservations,”_ The Hartford Courant_, October 23, 1955, 24.  

[^5]:“Morehouse graduates 165; gives 3 honorary degrees,” _Afro-American_, June 20, 1970, 21; Larsson, “George Kelsey“; “Seeks Invitation For Rev. Kelsey,” _Florida Star_, September 1, 1979, 4; “Dr. George Kelsey, Baptist Minister, 85,” _The New York Times_, April 15, 1996. 
