# Cora Edythe Taylor
## Attended Yale summer classes, 1920s

Cora Edythe Taylor was born in 1897 to John Samuel Taylor and Martha Etta Custalow. Her father, John, was active in Hartford politics. He served as president of the Colored Republican Club and a delegate for Connecticut’s Republican Convention. She attended the Arsenal School and Hartford Public High School before enrolling at Howard University. During her time at Howard University, she served as vice president of the class in 1923 and was a member of the Howard Players and Le Cercle Français. She graduated from Howard University in 1924. During the 1920s, she spent two of her summers at Yale Summer School.[^1] 

In 1929, she made national headlines when she became a teacher at the Walter G. Camp School in Hartford, making her the first African American to teach in the Hartford Public School System. She also presided over the Howard University Alumni club in Hartford in 1949. After more than 30 years of teaching, Taylor retired from the Hartford Public School System in 1961. In 1963, Taylor became president of the Cicuso Club, which helped raise money for African Americans to attend college. After her retirement, she became the director of the Women In Community Services (WICS) in Hartford and helped organize job training for young women. She was also a charter member of Hartford’s Delta Sigma Theta Alumnae Chapter and the Connecticut Valley Chapter of LINKS, and she served on the board of the Visiting Nurses Association.[^2] 

She died on October 13, 1969, and was buried in Zion Hill Cemetery in Hartford.[^3] 


[^1]:“Negro Leader Dies,” *The Hartford Courant*, June 7, 1943; The Bison (Washington, D.C.: Murray Brothers, Inc., 1924), 79; “Negro Woman Teacher For Local School,” *The Harford Courant*, September 8, 1929, 1.  

[^2]:“Hartford’s First Colored Public School Teacher,” *Transcript-Telegram*, September 18, 1929, 12; “Howard Alumni Fete Incoming Freshman,” *The Chicago Defender*, October 1, 1949; “40 Retiring from Staff Honored by School Board,” *The Hartford Courant*, June 2, 1961, 23; “C. Edythe Taylor Heads Cicuso Club,” *The Hartford Courant*, June 14, 1964; “WICS Throw Light on Poverty Pockets,” *The Hartford Courant*, June 29, 1965, 13; “Funeral services held for Miss Edythe Taylor,” *Afro-American*, October 25, 1969, 21.  

[^3]:https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/156031089/cora_edythe-taylor. 

Image citation: _Hartford Courant_, 8 September 1929, Hartford Public Library
