# Plummer David Jacobs
## Attended Yale Divinity School 1926-1927 

Plummer David Jacobs was born on May 10, 1897, to Solomon and Elizabeth Jacobs in Dudley, North Carolina. During the First World War, Jacobs served in the 151st Depot Brigade and the 63rd Pioneer Infantry Regiment. He was discharged from the army in December 1918. After the war, according to the 1920 U.S. Census, Jacobs lived with his widowed mother and siblings while working at a machine shop. He soon attended Talladega College where he was a member of the Alpha Beta Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha. He graduated from Talladega College in 1926 where he spoke at commencement.[^1] 

After his graduation from Talladega, Jacobs attended Yale Divinity School for the 1926-1927 school year. While in New Haven, he was an assistant minister for the Dixwell Avenue Congregational Church. He moved to New York City where he attended Renouard Training School for Embalmers, graduating in 1928. He later settled in Indianapolis, Indiana, where he began pastoring at Jones Tabernacle Church with Stephen Gill Spotswood, another early Black Yale student. In 1929, he became director of the J.T.V. Hill Memorial Settlement, a community center for Black residents of Indianapolis. In 1930, he supported the establishment of the Iota Lambda chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha.[^2]   

Together with his brother, Cary Duval Jacobs, they opened Jacobs Brother Funeral Home in Indianapolis. In 1971, he was recognized as funeral director of the year. Jacobs also began serving as associate pastor at Mount Paran Baptist Church in 1930 and would serve the church for 49 years. He also taught at Fox Lake Sunday School. Throughout his lifetime, Jacobs was affiliated with several organizations. He was a mason, affiliated with Waterford Lodge 13 of Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Indiana. He was a member of the Indianapolis branch of the NAACP and served on their advisory board. He was also a member of the Indiana Funeral Directors Association, Hoosier State Funeral Directors Association, and National Funeral Directors Association. He died on April 12, 1980, and was buried in First Congregational Church Cemetery in Dudley.[^3] 

Image citation: Baltimore _Afro-American_, 14 January 1928.

[^1]:"North Carolina, Department of Archives and History, Index to Vital Records, 1800-2000", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:7FS9-W6PZ: Sat Jun 01 00:44:45 UTC 2024), Entry for Plummer David Jacobs and Solomon Jacobs, 10 May 1897; "North Carolina, World War I Service Cards, 1917-1919", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:Q2H2-FBBT: Fri Mar 13 16:41:39 UTC 2026), Entry for Plummer D Jacobs, 01 Sep 1918; "United States, Census, 1920", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MZJC-PVB: Wed Jan 15 06:29:17 UTC 2025), Entry for Lizzie Jacobs and Lou Jacobs, 1920; “Alpha Beta Chapter,” _The Sphinx_ 11, no. 2 (1925), 32; “59th Anniversary At Talladega College,” _The New York Age_, June 12, 1926, 3.  

[^2]:“Renouard Awards Diplomas,” The Casket and Sunnyside 58, no. 2 (1928), 5; “Negro Artist Of City Wins Exhibit Honor: ‘Fighting Bob’ Bradby to Speak Here Sunday; Other News of Negro Circles,” _The Indianapolis Times_, January 11, 1929, 30; “F.L. Mack New Head At Brookside Shops,” Indianapolis Star, January 25, 1929, 22; “Iota Lambda Starts With Renewed Efforts,” _The Sphinx_ 16, no. 1 (1930), 43.  

[^3]:“Formal Opening and Dedication of—Jacobs Bros. Funeral Home,” _The Indianapolis Recorder_, October 29, 1938, 8; “Programs Honor Anniversary Of Rev. A.D. Devashir,” _The Anderson Herald_, August 20, 1939, 18; “Programs Honor Anniversary Of Rev. A.D. Devashir,” _The Anderson Herald_, August 20, 1939, 18; “Rites close Rev. Jacobs’ 50-year affiliation with Mt. Paran Church,” _The Indianapolis Recorder_, April 19, 1980, 1; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/245160203/plummer-d-jacobs. 
