# Grady Willis Johnson
## Attended Yale Divinity School 1927-1928

Grady Willis “Willie” Johnson was born on December 10, 1899, in Nichols, South Carolina to Willis and Lucy Johnson. He began attending Shaw University’s academy in 1918. While a student at Shaw Academy, he was inducted into the Student Army Training Corps (SATC) as a private. He graduated from Shaw Academy in 1922 and began attending Shaw University the same year. Johnson was a member of the Iota chapter of Phi Beta Sigma fraternity at Shaw University. In 1924, he served as parliamentarian of the chapter. He also was a member of the school’s debating team and _Shaw Journal_’s business manager. In his senior year, Shaw’s catalogue reported that Johnson worked as a student assistant in English. He graduated from Shaw in 1926 with a bachelor of science. During his lifetime, he was also a member of the Kings Mountain Student Council and the Council of Christian Associations.[^1] 

Following his graduation from Shaw University, he enrolled at Yale Divinity School in 1927. However, Johnson developed tuberculosis soon after and was admitted to William Wirth Winchester Hospital in West Haven, Connecticut. While there, he was visited by his professor from Shaw University, Benajamin Brawley. He died on August 21, 1928. The American Legion learned of his death and provided him with a military funeral in West Haven. In 1929, he was eulogized on Memorial Day at Yale’s Battell Chapel amongst other Yale veterans who died during the school year. He was buried in Oak Grove Cemetery.[^2] 

[^1]:"United States, Census, 1900", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:M3R3-2NB: Wed Jun 25 23:08:21 UTC 2025), Entry for Willis Johnson and Lucy Johnson, 1900; _Forty-fifth Annual Catalogue of the Officers and Students Of Shaw University, Raleigh, N. C.; For the Academic Year Ending May Thirty-first Nineteen Hundred and Nineteen_ (Raleigh: Edwards & Broughton Printing Co., 1919), 50; "North Carolina, World War I Service Cards, 1917-1919", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:Q2H2-NSD1: Fri Mar 13 16:41:32 UTC 2026), Entry for Grady W Johnson, 31 Oct 1918; _Shaw University Bulletin_, Raleigh, N. C.; _Catalog For the Session of 1922-1923_ (Raleigh: Shaw University, 1923), 53; “Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity,” _Norfolk Journal and Guide_, February 16, 1924, 9; “Shaw Students Are Planning New Activities,” _Norfolk Journal and Guide_, November 15, 1924, 8; “Shaw Debaters Win Over Team From Virginia Union,” The New York Age, May 1, 1926;  _Catalog and Announcements of Shaw University, Raleigh, N. C.; Founded 1865; Session of 1926-1927, Opens September 21, 1926_ (Raleigh: Commercial Printing Company, 1926), 10; _Catalog and Announcements of Shaw University, Raleigh, N. C.; Founded 1865; Session of 1927-1928, Opens September 20, 1927_ (Raleigh: Commercial Printing Company, 1927), 50; “The Wayfarer,” _The Intercollegian_ 46, no. 2 (November 1928), 63.  

[^2]:_Catalogue of Yale University: 1928-1929_ (New Haven: Yale University, 1928), 609; John W. Parker, “Phylon Profile, XIX: Benjamin Brawley—Teacher and Scholar,” _Phylon_ 10, no. 1, 19; “Friendless Veteran Gets American Legion Funeral,” _New Britain Herald_, August 23, 1928, 17; “Yale Men Who Gave Their Lives on Field of Battle and Members of University Who Have Died During Year Eulogized in Memorial Service,” _Yale Daily News_, May 31, 1929; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/152153163/grady-willie-johnson. 
