# Mary Cupit Howard Jennings
## Graduate of Yale School of Art, 1935

Mary Cupit Howard was born on December 14, 1908, to Sirrouko Howard, a janitor, and Corean L. Wilson in Providence, Rhode Island. She attended Hope High School in Providence and began attending the Rhode Island School of Design in 1927 with a scholarship. She received a certificate from the school in 1931. She then began attending the Yale School of Fine Arts in 1932. Her family sold some property to help finance her education. During her time at Yale, she received an honorable mention for the William Wirt Winchester fellowship. She graduated from the Yale School of Fine Arts with a bachelor of fine arts in painting in 1935.[^1] 

After graduation, she returned to Providence where she was a member of the Providence Art Club. In 1936, Howard was hired by the Works Progress Administration to work on fine arts projects. She was the only woman hired in the state of Rhode Island, and one of two Black artists. She produced several landscape works for the program. Some of her works, such as *Storm Over Fisherman’s Shacks* (1936) and *Old Houses, Benefit Street* (1939), are housed in the Newark Museum of Art. She married William Angier Jennings, a Morehouse college graduate who also attended Rhode Island School of Design. She spent more than a decade teaching in the Providence Public School District. In 1969, she graduated with a master of educations from Rhode Island College. She continued painting with some of her artwork exhibited at the Wilmer Jennings Gallery at Kenkeleba. She was also affiliated with the Wickford Art Association and the RI Watercolor Society.[^2] 

She died on February 12, 2011, in Providence at the age of 102.[^3] 

[^1]:"Rhode Island, Births and Christenings, 1600-1914", FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:F8SQ-N4W : 17 December 2019), Mary Cupit Howard, 1908; Alexander Tum, “Mary Howard Jennings: An Artist of Abundance,” https://rhodetour.org/items/show/421; “The Senior Class—June 1931,” The Student Designer 2, no. 4 (May, 1931); “Yale Art School Announces Awards: Fellowships and Prizes Are Bestowed,” *Daily Boston Globe*, June 15, 1934; “Yale Graduates Urged to Combat Attacks on the Government: Dr Angell Warns of ‘Raucous Voices’,” *The New York Times*, June 19, 1935, 11. 

[^2]:“Art Club Showing Paintings of Its Deceased,” *Afro-American, July 4, 1936*, 19; “Mary Howard Only Woman WPA Artist,” *Afro-American*, August 1, 1936, 7; Alexander Tum, “Mary Howard Jennings: An Artist of Abundance,” https://rhodetour.org/items/show/421; “Profile: Wilmer Angier Jennings (1910-1990), Black Art Story, https://blackartstory.org/2020/11/24/profile-wilmer-angier-jennings-1910-1990/.  

[^3]:https://www.legacy.com/us/obituaries/legacyremembers/mary-jennings-obituary?id=15637801. 

 
