# Jack Herman Robinson 
## Graduate of Yale Divinity School, 1941 

Jack Herman Robinson was born on November 11, 1915, in Culpeper, Virginia to Jack Cerlester Robinson and Josephine Wells. He attended Central High School in Philadelphia where he showed interest in a legal career. In 1934, he received a Federal Emergency Relief Administration scholarship. At Virginia State, he was admitted to the Iota Sigma Lambda academic fraternity and was an honor roll student. He graduated from Virginia State College in 1938 and began attending Yale Divinity School in the same year.[^1] 

He graduated from Yale Divinity School in 1941 and shared his interest in pursuing a Ph.D. at Yale with the *Philadelphia Tribune*. He was ordained as a Baptist minister by the Connecticut Council of Baptist Ministers. According to the 1950 U.S. Census, he was living in Philadelphia where he worked as a teacher and was married to Willie Beatrice Hamlet. He eventually moved to Camden, New Jersey where he served as an associate pastor for Kaighn Avenue Baptist Church. He died on October 21, 2000, in Woodbury, New Jersey and was buried in Eglington Cemetery in Clarksboro, New Jersey.[^2] 

[^1]:“FERA Scholarship,” *Philadelphia Tribune*, October 4, 1934, 2; “72 Virginia Staters Earn Spot on Roll,” *Atlanta Daily World*, February 10, 1935, 8; “5 Va. Seniors To Scholarship Frat,” *The Chicago Defender*, May 28, 1938, 10; “Virginia State Gives Four M.A. Degrees: Honor Rev. J. A. Russell, Miss Virginia Randolph,” *New Journal and Guide*, June 11, 1938, 10.  

[^2]:“Yale Graduate Plans Work on Ph.D. Degree,” *Philadelphia Tribune*, June 26, 1941, 13; "United States, Census, 1950", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:6X17-N8FM : Fri Oct 06 20:49:34 UTC 2023), Entry for Jack H Robinson and Willie B Robinson, 1 April 1950; “Rev. Jack H. Robinson,” *Courier-Post*, October 26, 2000.  
