# Andrew McLean Spaulding   
## Attended Yale Divinity School 1939-1940 

Andrew McLean Spaulding was born on July 14, 1913, to Reverend William McLean Spaulding and Carrie Lena McMullen in Lancaster, South Carolina. According to the 1920 U.S. Census, the family moved to North Carolina where William was a minister and Carrie worked as a high school teacher in Gates, North Carolina. The family later lived in Rocky Mount where his father pastored at St. John AME Zion Church and Spaulding attended Booker T. Washington High School.[^1] 

He attended Fisk University and graduated with a bachelor of arts in 1934. He pursued further education at the Chicago Theological Seminary. He later enrolled at Yale Divinity School for the 1939-1940 school year. While at Yale, he continued to stay in Ansonia, Connecticut, where he was a pastor at Clinton AME Zion Church. He went back to school, attending Boston University School of Theology and graduating in 1947 with a bachelor of sacred theology. In 1949, he married Olivia Turrentine, whom he met when the two were studying in Boston. He pastored at Wadsworth Street AME Zion Church in Providence, Rhode Island. He also was a member of the NAACP in Providence, where he became the branch president.[^2] 

He joined the faculty of Livingstone College in Hood Theological Seminary where he served as professor of theology in 1958. He eventually became the head of Livingstone College’s religious department. Later in his life, Spaulding served as pastor for Mount Sinai AME Zion Church in Advance, North Carolina.  Spaulding died on March 25, 2009, in Nashville Tennessee. In 2008, his son, Dr. Henry Moses, endowed a scholarship in honor of his father to Fisk University.[^3] 

Image citation: _Rocky Mount Evening Telegram_, 30 May 1951.

[^1]:"United States, Census, 1920", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MZKB-2B6: Mon Jan 20 21:40:11 UTC 2025), Entry for W M Spaulding and C L Spaulding, 1920. 

[^2]:“NAACP Hears Leader of Providence Branch: The Rev. Andrew M. Spaulding Is Guest Speaker at West Broadway YMCA,” *Newport Mercury and Weekly News*, July 23, 1948, 4. 

[^3]:“New Faculty Members,” *New Journal and Guide*, October 4, 1958, 13; “Methodist Reassigning Ceremony,” *New Journal and Guide*, October 22, 1972, 2; “Fisk Remembers Dr. Andrew McLean Spaulding,” Fisk University’s Official Weblog, https://fiskuniversity.wordpress.com/2009/03/27/fisk-remembers-dr-andrew-mclean-spaulding/; “Dr. Reverend Andrew McLean Spaulding,” *The Tennessean*, March 29, 2009; “Distinguished Professor Dr. Henry A. Moses Contributes $100,000 to Fisk,” *The Tennessee Tribune*, June 19, 2008. 

 
