# McKerrow Biddle Johnson 
## Attended Yale School of Fine Arts (1906-1907) 

McKerrow Biddle Johnson was born on November 2, 1888, in Middletown, Connecticut. He eventually moved to New Haven, where he attended Winchester Grammar School and graduated in 1905. He later enrolled at Yale School of Fine Arts as a regular student and attended the school for the 1906-1907 school year. He left Yale after a year and, according to New Haven directories, lived at 211 Henry Street and worked as an elevator man, printer, and photographer. According to Johnson’s World War I Draft Registration Card (the last record fround), Johnson was residing on 68 Dixwell Avenue and was unemployed.[^1] 

McKerrow may have been related to Reverend Henry H. Johnson of New Haven's Immanuel Baptist Church. Both McKerrow and Gwendolyn Irene Johnson, a daughter of Henry H. Johnson, attended Winchester Grammar School and graduated in the same class year. Reverend Henry H. Johnson lived at 211 Henry Street, according to the 1910 U.S. Census. Although McKerrow is not present at that address in the 1910 U.S. Census, the New Haven directories and Yale catalogue reported that McKerrow lived at that address. After the death of Reverend Henry H. Johnson, McKerrow’s name popped up as one of two heirs to inherit Johnson’s estate of $100,000 in 1917. The other potential heir was Gwendolyn, who at this point lived in Halifax, Nova Scotia.[^2] 

[^1]:“Graduating Exercises: Of the Winchester Grammar School June 23,” The Morning Journal-Courier, June 21, 1905; Catalogue of Yale University, 1906-1907 (New Haven: The Tuttle, Morehouse & Taylor Company, 1906), 731; Ancestry.com. U.S., World War I Draft Registration Cards, 1917-1918 [database online]. Provo, UT, USA: Ancestry.com Operations Inc, 2005, U.S., World War I Draft Registration Cards, 1917-1918 for Mc Karrow B Johnson.  

[^2]:“Halifax Heir To Big Estate: Valuables of Rev. H. H. Johnson Found in Odd Corners May be Worth $100,000," Saint John  _Telegraph-Journal_, 8 Feburary, 1917.

 
