# Alonzo Joseph Davis
## Attended Yale Graduate School 1939-1940 

Alonzo Joseph Davis was born on July 18, 1909 to Julius Johnston Davis and Mary Beatrice Wilson in Washington, D.C. According to the 1910 U.S. Census, the family lived in D.C. where Julius worked as a waiter. He attended Dunbar High School in the city. He later attended Howard University, graduating with a bachelor’s in 1931 and a master of science in 1932. At Howard, he was a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity and the Sabre Club. Davis was also a first lieutenant in Howard’s Reserve Officers' Training Corps. In 1934, he joined the Tuskegee University faculty as a psychology professor.[^1] 

He enrolled at Yale Graduate School for the 1939-1940 school year where he was a Julius Rosenwald Fellow. At Yale, he studied psychology, particularly studying the factors influencing mechanical ability. In 1940, he married Agnes Lewis Moses, a schoolteacher, in Birmingham, Alabama. He eventually received a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in child psychology. He returned to Tuskegee where he eventually became a dean of Tuskegee’s School of Education. In 1948, he co-wrote an encyclopedia on vocational education. He contributed a section dedicated towards the vocational training of African Americans.[^2] 

In 1957, he was sent on a two-year mission to Indonesia. He assisted their ministry of education in developing a vocational education system. He later taught at North Carolina Central University where he was the chairman of their psychology department. He died on April 4, 2001, in Columbia, Maryland. His two sons, Alonzo J. Davis Jr. and Dale Brockman Davis, became famous for organizing Black artists and for establishing the Brockman Gallery, providing Black artists an opportunity to showcase their art in Los Angeles.[^3] 

[^1]:"United States, Census, 1910", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MKLN-NM4: Wed Aug 13 15:39:39 UTC 2025), Entry for George F Davis and Beatrice M Davis, 1910; "Illinois, World War II Draft Registration Cards, 1940-1945", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:QPWD-9V7T: Tue Apr 08 02:14:23 UTC 2025), Entry for Alonzo Joseph Davis and Tuskegee Permanent Institute, 16 Oct 1940; *The Bison*, 1931 (Washington, D.C.: Howard University, 1931), 34; “New Members Arrive on Tuskegee Faculty,” *The Call*, October 5, 1934, b7. Alonzo J. Davis Jr., “Interview of Alonzo Davis: Tape Number: I, Side Two October 26, 1990,” UCLA Library Center for Oral History Research 

[^2]:*The Negro Handbook*, ed. Florence Murray (New York: Wendell Malliet and Company, 1942),120; “Moses-Davis Wedding in Birmingham Pretty,” *New Pittsburgh Courier*, October 5, 1940, 10; “Encyclopedia’s Co-Author,” *The New York Age*, April 24, 1948, 2.  

[^3]:“From Djakarta, Indonesia,” *The Chicago Defender*, September 19, 1959, 9; “Congratulate Scholar,” *Afro-American*, March 30, 1963, 17; "United States, GenealogyBank Obituaries, Births, and Marriages, 1980-2015", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:QK5K-S1R8: Mon Jun 03 20:24:25 UTC 2024), Entry for Mr. Alonzo J Davis and Dale Davis, 12 Apr 2001; “Alonzo Davis, 82, Whose L.A. Gallery Became a Hub for Black Art, Dies,” *The New York Times*, February 4, 2025. 
