# Thomas Bennett Taylor 
## Graduate of Yale School of Music, 1941 

Thomas Bennett Taylor was born on June 6, 1915, to George Byron Taylor and Cecelia Ann McQuaide in Hartford, Connecticut. According to the 1920 U.S. Census, the Taylor family lived in Hartford where George Taylor worked as a mailman. While in Hartford, he attended Bulkeley High School, graduating in 1933 and playing a piano solo at his class night. He attended Fisk University and graduated in 1937. In the same year, he enrolled at Yale School of Music. He received a certificate in theory of music in 1939 and continued to attend Yale, receiving a bachelor of music in 1941. While a student at Yale, Taylor played music in Hartford.[1] 

After graduating from Yale, he enlisted in the United States Army in September 1941. He attended the Tuskegee Army Flying School in Tuskegee, Alabama and then the Officer Candidate School at Fort Francis E. Warren in Cheyenne, Wyoming. He became a quartermaster and served under the Ninth Army Air Forces with the 1516th Quartermaster Truck Battalion. The battalion assisted in trucking bombs from arsenals to air bases in France, Belgium, and Germany. By the end of the war, Taylor received a Bronze Star Medal. He also received a commission as a major in the army.[^2] 

After the war, Taylor continued to serve as a major within the United States Army Transportation Corps. He married Eva Mae Williams in 1946 in Washington, D.C. In 1948, Taylor was stationed at Baton Rouge, Louisiana where he served as a professor of military science and tactics and oversaw the Reserve Officer’s Training Corps at Southern University. He entered active service again in the Korean War, where he served as lieutenant colonel and commanded a transportation battalion: 8058th Army Unit, Quartermaster Battalion. Taylor, alongside three captains that served under him, were accused of fraternizing with enlisted men at a Busan club. After an army investigation, Taylor received a reprimand and a fine.[^3] 

Taylor was in active duty in 1964 and served during the Vietnam War. He was discharged from the military in 1968. He resided in Honolulu, Hawaii where he died on October 1, 1980. He was buried at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in the city.[^4] 

Image citation: _Hartford Courant_, 24 November 1945.

[^1]:"United States, Census, 1920", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MCFT-SQH: Sun Jan 19 05:37:51 UTC 2025), Entry for George B Taylor and Cecelia A Taylor, 1920; “Graduating Class at Bulkeley Will Hold Exercises: Events to Take Place Tonight—Senior Reception on Friday,” *The Hartford Courant*, January 25, 1933, 6; “Hartford Student Wins $500 Yale Fellowship,” *The Hartford Courant*, June 10, 1939, 4; “Entertainment Given by Negro Musicians,” *The Hartford Courant*, April 25, 1938, 16.  

[^2]:“Tuskegee Sends 2 Sergeants to Officer School,” *Afro-American*, April 18, 1942, 5; “Part Played by All-Negro Group Told: Major Thomas B. Taylor Served with Air Force Truck Battalion,” *The Hartford Courant*, November 24, 1945, 11; “Major Taylor Asks Corrections in News Story,” *The Hartford Courant*, November 25, 1945, B4.  

[^3]:Marriage Records. District of Columbia Marriages. Clerk of the Superior Court, Records Office, Washington D.C; “Inspection of ROTC Unit at Southern,” *The Louisiana Weekly*, January 29, 1949, 15; “Col. Robinson Inspects SU ROTC,” *The Louisiana Weekly*, June 10, 1950, 8; “Washington Pipeline,” *Courier*, November 27, 1954; “Inside Korea Story: Colonel, major, 3 captains accused,” *Afro-American*, August 6, 1955, 5.  

[^4]:U.S., Department of Veterans Affairs Birls Death File, 1850-2022; *Honolulu Star-Advertiser*, October 4, 1980, 4; https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/3794273/thomas-bennett-taylor.  
