# Fannin Saffore Belcher
## Received PhD, 1946

Fannin Saffore Belcher was born on September 13, 1909, in Savannah, Georgia to Fannin Saffore Belcher Sr. and Mamie E. Sheftall. His father, Belcher Sr., graduated from Howard University and practiced medicine in Savannah. He eventually became the city’s physician and president of the NAACP chapter in Savannah. Belcher attended Dunbar High School in Washington, D.C and graduated in 1924.[^1] 

Belcher attended Lincoln University where he was a member of Phi Lambda Sigma Literary Society and Omega Psi Phi. Belcher also served as circulation manager for *Lincoln News* and as president of the Mask and Wig Club. In 1926, he won the Wanamaker Prize in English Bible. In 1928, he graduated cum laude from Lincoln. After graduating from Lincoln, he joined the faculty briefly and coached the debate team. He later attended the University of Pennsylvania and received his master’s degree in 1930. Shortly after, Belcher began working at West Virginia State College where he taught English and dramatics. Alongside his teaching duties, he worked with the West Virginia Players, producing and directing plays. Belcher also started the West Virginia Summer Playhouse, a summer theater program that taught drama students and hosted shows over the summer months.[^2] 

In 1938, Belcher received a Rosenwald Fellowship to study drama at Yale Graduate School.  While a student at Yale, he continued to oversee the Playhouse during the summers. He received his Ph.D. from Yale in 1946 where his doctoral thesis examined portrayals of Black people in American drama from the 1767 to 1940. He returned to West Virginia State College where he served as director of drama. In 1951, he was elected president of the Intercollegiate Dramatic Association started by Sheppard Randolph Edmonds, another early Black Yale graduate.[^3] 

Belcher went to Iran as an awardee of the Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program. He was a visiting professor for the University of Tehran during the 1957-1958 academic year. While in Iran, he did research on Iranian drama and consulted for little theatre groups in the country. He returned to the United States and resumed his teaching at West Virginia State College. By 1967, he continued to serve as director of drama at the college and was also chairman of literature and fine arts. Belcher was also affiliated with Sigma Pi Phi, the American Education Theater Association, the National Education Association, the West Virginia Education Association, the Modern Language Association, the National Council of Teachers of English, and the Speech Association of America. He died from emphysema in Charleston, West Virginia on July 1, 1967. West Virginia State College, later West Virginia State University, renamed its theatre in recognition of Belcher’s contributions to the school’s drama program.[^4] 

[^1]:https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/291181160/fannin_saffore-belcher; https://www.savnaacp.com/NAACP_SAVANNAH/Welcome.html; “School Doings,” *The Chicago Defender*, June 28, 1924, 18. 

[^2]:“More Lincoln,” *The Afro-American*, June 19, 1926, 9; *Lincoln News* Commencement Number, 4 (1928); “Homines Honores: For the Past Year,” *Lincoln News*, 1 (October 1928); Gertrude P. Brown, “Busy Year for Little Theatre,” *Afro-American*, November 12, 1932, 22; “W. Va. Playhouse Opens,” *The Chicago Defender*, June 27, 1936, 4.  

[^3]:“34 Receive Rosenwald Fellowship Awards For 1938,” The Informer and Texas Freeman, May 4, 1938, 1; “W. Va. State Playhouse to Have Opening,” *The Call*, June 28, 1940, 15; “Ph.D. in Drama,” *Philadelphia Tribune*, May 4, 1946; “Drama Teacher To Lecture In Tehran,” *The Call*, September 20, 1.  

[^4]:Louis Lautier, “Capital Spotlight,” *Atlanta Daily World*, October 2, 1957, 6; “Dr. Belcher: W. Va. State Professor Succumbs,” *New Pittsburgh Courier*, July 22, 1967; “Fannin S. Belcher, 59; Educator and Author,” *The Washington Post*, July 5, 1967, B6. 

Image citation: *The Arch* yearbook, West Virginia State University, Archives and Special Collections Department, Drain-Jordan Library at West Virginia State University. 
