# Stephen Gill Spottswood  
## Attended Yale Divinity School 1922-1923

Stephen Gill Spottswood was born on July 18, 1897, in Boston, Massachusetts, to Abraham Lincoln and Mary Spottswood. His father worked as a store porter. During his youth, Spottswood attended Cambridge Latin School in Massachusetts and Freeport High School. He later returned to Boston where he graduated from Gordon Bible School in 1919 with a theology degree. Following his graduation, he pastored at Green Memorial African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church in Portland, Maine. During his two years at Green Memorial A. M. E. Z., he doubled membership and improved the finances of the church.[^1] 

Spottswood moved to New Haven, Connecticut, where he oversaw the Varick A. M. E. Z. Church. In 1922, he enrolled in a one-year postgraduate resident student at Yale Divinity School. Between 1922 to 1925, outside of school and pastoring, Spottswood was also a leader within the New Haven community. He joined the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) chapter in New Haven and became their recording secretary. He also was a board member involved in the construction of the Dixwell Community House (Q House). He was a council member in the New Haven Council of Churches and the New Haven Council of the Boy Scouts of America.[^2]

Spottswood left New Haven in 1925 to serve as a pastor in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and continued to hold several pastorships in the late 1920s and early 1930s in Indianapolis, Indiana, and Buffalo, New York. In 1936, he left St. Luke’s A. M. E. Z. Church in Buffalo and moved to Washington, D.C., to pastor at John Wesley A. M. E. Z. Church, where he would continue to serve for 16 years. During his time in Washington, he also served as the president of the District of Columbia Branch of the NAACP and oversaw the NAACP’s convention in the city in 1947, which included an address from President Harry Truman. In the 34th quadrennial session of the A. M. E. Z. General Conference in 1952, Spottswood was elected to a bishopric. In 1954, he was elected to the NAACP’s board of directors.[^3]

In 1919, Spottswood married Viola Estelle Booker in Boston. Viola started out her work in the Foreign Missionary Society and became a supervisor of missionary societies within the A. M. E. Z. Church. In 1952, the Spottswoods were awakened by a house fire in their Washington home. The two were separated while trying to find their grandchildren. Stephen found the children outside, but Viola died from smoke inhalation. He remarried in 1969 to Mattie Johnson Elliot, a principal at the Charles Young Elementary School. Spottswood was eventually elected as the NAACP’s chairman of the Board of Directors in 1961. He led efforts to garner critical support for the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Following the passage of the bill, Spottswood continued to fight for civil rights, opposing, for example, President Richard Nixon’s efforts to stop school desegregation. Spottswood died in 1974 in Washington, D. C.[^4]  

[^1]: “United States, Census, 1900,” Entry for Lincoln Spottswood and Mary E Spottswood, 1900, FamilySearch; “Massachusetts, Town Clerk, Vital and Town Records, 1626-2001,” Entry for Stephen Gill/Spottswood and Lincoln/Spottswood, 18 Jul 1897, FamilySearch; Nathan Aaseng, African-American Religious Leaders (New York: Facts On File, 2003), 222; “Degrees Conferred At Gordon Bible School,” *The Boston Daily Globe*, May 29, 1919; “Church Notices,” Portland Evening Express & Advertiser, July 17, 1920; “Farewell Sermon Sunday: Pastor of Zion Church Soon to Leave Portland,” *Portland Press*, June 3, 1922. 

[^2]: “Local Pastor Will Go To New Haven,” *Evening Express*, June 13, 1922; *Bulletin of Yale University: General Catalogue 1922-1923* (New Haven, CT: Yale University, 1923), 543; “Rev. Spottswood,” *The Sentinel*, January 1, 1926.

[^3]: “New York: Buffalo,” *The Chicago Defender*, August 8, 1936; “NAACP Convention to Washington, D. C.,” *The Alabama Tribune*, April 4, 1947; “Robeson Holding In Favored Spot For Zion Bishop,” *The New York Age*, May 17, 1952.

[^4]: “Massachusetts, State Vital Records, 1638-1927,” Entry for Stephen G Spottswood and Viola E Booker, 10 Jun 1919, FamilySearch; “Wife of Bishop Dies While Battling Fire,” *New Pittsburgh Courier*, October 31, 1953; “Gadabouting U.S.A,” *Afro-American*, December 27, 1969; “Bishop S. G. Spottswood Is New NAACP Chairman,” *Alabama Tribune*, April 21, 1961; “NAACP at War with Nixon over Busing, Delegates Told,” Press-Telegram, July 4, 1972; “S. G. Spottswood Dies; Led NAACP,” *The Washington Post*, December 3, 1974.

Image citation: Scurlock Studio Records (NMAH.AC.0618.S04.01), Archives Center, National Museum of American History
