# Lorenzo Dow Turner 
# Research Fellow at Yale Graduate School 1938-1939 

Lorenzo Dow Turner was born to Rooks Turner and Elizabeth R. Sessoms on August 21, 1890, in Elizabeth City, North Carolina. His father was a teacher who received a master’s degree from Howard University. In 1896, his father was forced out of Elizabeth City after he fought a white man. Rooks eventually returned but remained distanced from the family. Lorenzo grew up with his mother, Elizabeth. Turner attended Howard Academy, graduating in 1910, and later enrolled at Howard University. At Howard, he was a member of Alpha Phi Alpha, the varsity debate team, and the university’s advisory council. Turner also served as assistant manager and manager of the baseball team. By senior year, Turner was elected class president and graduated cum laude in 1914.[^1] 

After Howard, Turner attended Harvard University where he graduated with a master’s degree in English. After Harvard, Turner returned to Howard University where joined the faculty as an English professor. He married Geneva Calcier Townes in 1919. At Howard, Turner became the head of the department and established a journalism department that he headed in 1928. During the summer of 1928, Turner was alleged to have pursued an inappropriate relationship with a student and was dismissed by Howard University’s Board of Trustees. Turner made attempts at appeal but went on to join the Fisk faculty in 1929 to teach English. At Fisk, he also oversaw the Fisk Debate Team.[^2] 

Turner taught at South Carolina State College for the summer of 1929 and soon developed an interest in researching the Gullah language after his interactions with students. He received funding from the American Council of Learned Societies to live on the islands off South Carolina and Georgia and conduct research. On December 31, 1932, Turner gave a lecture at Yale University where he shared his findings before the American Dialect Society and played phonographic records of Gullah speakers. He continued his research in Gullah and attended the University of London School of Oriental Studies in 1936. For a year, he studied West African languages. Turner divorced Geneva in 1938 and married Lois Gwendolyn Morton, a Fisk master’s student, in the same year.[^3] 

The American Council of Learned Societies provided Turner with a grant to study at Yale Graduate School for the fall of 1938. Lorenzo and Lois together went to New Haven where Lorenzo was a research fellow, and Lois took classes at Yale School of Art. At Yale, Lorenzo studied under Professor Edward Sapir and took coursework in linguistics. While in New Haven, he became acquainted with Henry Curtis McDowell, who would go on to serve as pastor for Dixwell Congregational Church. McDowell, who served as a missionary in Angola, provided Turner with material relating to Umbundu. In 1940, he won a Rosenwald Fellowship to further his studies in Brazil. In the summer of 1945, Turner went to Haiti with a group of Fisk educators which included John Wesley Work, a Black graduate of Yale School of Music. In Haiti, Turner studied Haitian creole and illiteracy in the country. While teaching at Howard, Turner pursued a doctorate degree at the University of Chicago. He won the Charles H. Smiley Scholarship for high scholarship. He graduated from the University of Chicago with a Ph.D. in 1926. His thesis was on anti-slavery sentiments in American literature.[^4] 

Turner left Fisk University in 1947 and joined Roosevelt College, a newly established college in Chicago, where he was a professor of English. In 1951, he continued to pursue his interest in African studies when he conducted fieldwork in British West Africa. While in British West Africa, he was a visiting lecturer at the University of Ibadan in Nigeria. Upon returning to the United States, Turner continued to do research on African linguistics and culture. He retired from Roosevelt University and died on February 10, 1972, in Chicago.[^5] 

[^1]:https://www.si.edu/object/archives/components/sova-acma-06-017-ref698; https://sova.si.edu/record/acma.06-017/ref699?s=3624&n=12&t=D&q=Scurlock&i=3633; *NIKH*: 1914 (Washington, D.C.: Howard University, 1914), 44.  

[^2]:“News Nuggets from Near and Far,” *The New York Age*, June 28, 1917, 7; “Marriage Licenses,” *The Evening Star*, September 18, 1919, 9; “Gets Doctor’s Degree,” *The Afro-American*, September 25, 1926, 1; “Directs Journalism Department,” *The Afro-American*, March 31, 1928, 3; “Case Of Four Dismissed H.U. Professors Again Postponed,” *The Afro-American*, December 1, 1928, 3; “School News,” *The Chicago Defender*, October 19, 1929, 9; “Leroy Hart Coaches Bluefield Debate Team,” *The California Eagle*, April 18, 1930, 3. 

[^3]:“Lorenzo Dow Turner: Connecting Communities Through Language,” *The Black Scholar* 41, no. 1, 7 (2011); “Awarded Grant for Research,” *The Black Dispatch*, March 26, 1932; “Gullah Dialect Records Made for Scientists: Prof. Turner, at Yale Session, Explains Its 1st Intensive Study of Negro Idiom; Provides Translations; South Carolina Research Also Includes a Glossary,” *New York Herald Tribune*, January 1, 1933; “Little Bits: From Here and There,” [Chicago] *Metropolitan News*, October 17, 1936, 6; Margaret Wade-Lewis, *Lorenzo Dow Turner: Father of Gullah Studies* (University of South Carolina Press, 2007), 112.  

[^4]:Margaret Wade-Lewis, *Lorenzo Dow Turner: Father of Gullah Studies* (University of South Carolina Press, 2007), 119-121; "Kentucky, County Marriages, 1786-1965", FamilySearch (https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:Q2DH-7938: Sat Feb 24 01:02:27 UTC 2024), Entry for Lorenzo D Turner and Rooks Turner, 01 Sep 1938; *The Negro Handbook*, ed. Florence Murray (New York: Wendell Malliet and Company, 1942), 121; “Fisk Faculty Group to Study Cultural and Economic Life in Haiti This Summer,” *The Call*, June 8, 1945, 7; H. A. Wiseman, “News of Colored People: Lorenzo D. Turner Making Good,” *Winston-Salem Journal*, November 4, 1926, 19.  

[5]:“Dr. L.D. Turner to Speak Sunday,” *The Louisville Defender*, February 4, 1953, 1; “Lecture series to honor African scholar Turner,” *The Afro-American*, April 9, 1966, 16; “26 Senior Citizens Selected for Chicago Hall of Fame,” *Chicago Tribune*, May 4, 1969, scl8; “Lorenzo Dow Turner,” *Chicago Daily Defender*, February 15, 1972. 

 
