# William Pickens
## Graduate of Yale College, 1904
William Pickens was born on January 15, 1881 in Anderson County, South Carolina to formerly
enslaved parents. He showed impressive academic achievement, graduating as valedictorian of
Union High School in Little Rock, Arkansas in 1899 and going on to graduate from Talladega
College in Alabama in 1902 before receiving a second bachelor&#39;s degree from Yale. He
graduated in 1904 in the honors society Phi Beta Kappa and won prizes for his excellent
oratory. He would later also go on to receive a master’s degree from Fisk University in Nashville,
Tennessee in 1908, a PhD in literature from Selma University in Alabama in 1915, and an LLD
from Wiley University in Marshall, Texas in 1918, all while simultaneously pursuing a career in
academia.

Pickens married Minnie Cooper McAlpine of Meridian, Mississippi in 1905, with whom he would
have three children. His first post-graduate job was as a professor at Talladega College for ten
years, and he subsequently worked as dean of Morgan College in Baltimore, Maryland, from
1915 to 1920. During this time he also began his prolific writing career, publishing a two-part
autobiography under the titles of *The Heir of Slaves* (1911) and *Bursting Bonds* (1923),
reflecting on his upbringing, education, and participation in the Harlem Renaissance. Pickens
was an active participant in the ongoing conversation in the 1910s and 1920s surrounding Black
civil rights and the “New Negro” movement, publishing a collection of essays under the title *The
New Negro: His Political, Civil, and Mental Status* in 1916.

After leaving academia in 1920, Pickens spent the next twenty years working for the NAACP,
which he had been involved in since its founding in 1910. He helped establish the organization’s
Louisville branch and worked as a field secretary, becoming an influential public speaker and
writer who massively grew the organization’s membership. After leaving the NAACP in 1942 he
worked for the US Treasury Department, supporting the sale of savings bonds during WWII. He
retired in 1951 and died while on a cruise in Jamaica on April 6, 1954.

Image citation: Yale College Class of 1904 class book, Yale University Library
