# William H. Ferris
## Graduate of Yale College, 1895; Received master’s degree, 1899
William Henry Ferris was born in New Haven in 1874. After graduating from New Haven High
School, he earned a bachelor’s degree in 1895 and a master’s degree in 1899, both from Yale.
In June 1895, he gave a lecture on introductory philosophy for students in Yale’s Osborn Hall.
He went on to study at the Harvard Divinity School and earned a master’s degree in journalism
from Harvard in 1900.

After receiving his degrees, Ferris worked as a teacher, A. M. E. minister, lecturer, and
journalist. In 1913, he published a two-volume book *The African Abroad*, which traces the
history of Black people in Europe and the Americas. A critic of Booker T. Washington’s industrial
educational philosophy, Ferris aligned himself more closely with the intellectual Alexander
Crummell as well as W. E. B. Du Bois and the Niagara movement. In 1920, Ferris wrote
*Alexander Crummell: An Apostle of Negro Culture*, published by the American Negro Academy,
the organization Crummell founded.

Ferris became a supporter of Marcus Garvey and his brand of political and economic black
nationalism. Best known for the “Back-to-Africa” movement, Garvey led the Universal Negro
Improvement Association (UNIA), the largest organization of Black people in American history.
In 1919, Ferris was elected Assistant General President of the UNIA and served as literary
editor of its newspaper, *The Negro World*, with a circulation of 200,000 copies. In 1922, he was
part of a UNIA delegation that petitioned the League of Nations to give African land colonized by
Germany to Black people to establish a homeland. In the 1930s, he served as Dean of the
Glasgow Normal and Theological Institute in Glasgow, Kentucky. He died in 1941.

Image citation: Yale College Class of 1895 class book, Yale University Library
