# William Yancy Bell
## Received Ph.D. in Philosophy, 1924
Born in 1887, the son of a minister and the grandson of an enslaved man who escaped with his
family from slavery in North Carolina, William Yancey (or Yancy) Bell received his BA from Lane
College in Jackson, Tennessee in 1907, a master&#39;s degree from Northwestern University in
1915, and an S.B.T. from Garrett Biblical Institute, where he taught classical languages following
his graduation.

Bell served as an army chaplain during World War I. In 1919, he founded a Christian Methodist
Episcopal (CME) Church (Williams Institutional) in New York, where he stayed for nine years. In
1924, he completed his PhD in New Testament Studies from Yale. His dissertation was entitled,
“Mutawakkili of As-Suyuti,” a translation of an Arabic text.

In 1928, Bell joined the faculty of Gammon Theological Seminary and later taught Biblical
studies at Morris Brown and Howard. In 1938, he was made a bishop of the CME Church. He
served on the faculty of the CME Church’s Holsey Institute in Cordele, Georgia from 1941 to
1948. In 1958, he was made senior bishop of the CME Church and remained actively associated with the Holsey Institute until his death. At the time of his death, he was also serving
as minister of Ebenezer CME Church in South Boston, Virginia.

Bell was a lifetime member of the NAACP. In the 1920s, he was affiliated with the Garvey
movement, although not a full Garveyite. In 1951, Bell was among a group of Black leaders,
including Mary McLeod Bethune and A. Philip Randolph, who met with President Harry S.
Truman and urged him to make hiring Black Americans in government a priority. In 1957, he
was one of the Black leaders participating in the Prayer Pilgrimage for Freedom in Washington,
DC, organized by Martin Luther King, Jr. Bell died in 1962.

Image citation: McAfee, Sara Jane. *History of the Woman's Missionary Society in the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church* (revised edition). Phenix City, AL: Phenix City Herald, 1945.

