# Powell Daniel Lindsay
## Attended Yale School of Drama 1935

Born in 1905 in Philadelphia, Powell Lindsay was a successful Black playwright, actor, and director. Raised in Phoebus, Virginia, he was the son of Henry Lindsay, born in Bluefield, West Virginia, and Addie E. Tower, born in Cape Charles, Virginia. His mother died in 1933. Lindsay trained to be a tailor at the St. Paul Normal School in Lawrenceville, Virginia. He later studied at Virginia Union University but did not receive a degree. In fall 1935, he entered the Yale School of Drama for playwriting, but he stayed only one term and left the program in December 1935. Lindsay had been recommended for admission by another Black student, Randolph Edmonds. In 1937, his troupe of Black performers won first honors in a Yale Drama tournament for their play “Might Wind A ‘Blowin.” 

He was active in New York’s Black theater scene before and after his time at Yale. A co-founder of the Harlem Suitcase Theater with Langston Hughes in 1937, Lindsay also co-founded the Negro Playwrights Company. In addition to the stage, he had a successful career in Black film as an actor, writer, and director. He acted in *Love in Syncopation* (1946), and he acted and wrote for *That Man of Mine* (1946), *Jivin’ in Be-Bop* (1947), and *Souls of Sin* (1949). He starred in, directed, and produced plays including “Big White Fog” (1940) and, on Broadway, “Tobacco Road” (1950) and “Born Yesterday” (1953). 

Lindsay was a member of the National Negro Congress, an executive officer of the New Theater League, and was active in the Works Progress Administration’s Federal Theater Project. He was interested in exploring issues of class and race and was known for his Popular Front and leftist commitments early in his career. Film scholar Ellen C. Scott has called Lindsay “the last race filmmaker.”[^1]

In the 1950s, Lindsay moved to Detroit, where he starred in television and produced a study on police brutality for the NAACP that was published in the *New York Times*. In 1965, he started the Research Association for Michigan Negro History. In the 1960s, he moved to Ann Arbor, where he worked at the State Legislative Service Bureau. In 1970s, he established a new Suitcase Theater. It was composed of Michigan young people across racial and economic backgrounds who performed across the world. Lindsay retired in 1979.[^2]

Lindsay’s friendship with Langston Hughes dated to 1933, and they continued to work together into the 1960s. Their lengthy correspondence forms part of the Langston Hughes Papers at the Beinecke. Following the death of Hughes in 1967, Lindsay produced a play in his honor in Detroit titled “Langston Hughes Looks at Dark America” and used his role as research analyst in Michigan’s Legislative Service Bureau to celebrate the life of Langston Hughes and his contributions to Black literature. Powell Lindsay died in 1987 at the age of 82 in Ann Arbor, Michigan. [^3]

[^1]: Ellen C. Scott, “Unresolved Subjects: Poverty, Rage, and Abstraction in the Work of the Last Race Filmmaker,” *Black Camera* 10, no. 1: 7-41.

[^2]: “Lindsay, Powell” (obituary), *Ann Arbor News*, Sept. 23, 1987; “P. Linsday, theater veteran,” Detroit Free Press, Sept. 26, 1987.

[^3]: “‘Tobacco Road’ Star Powell Lindsay Dead at 82,” *Ann Arbor News*, Sept. 24, 1987.

Image citation: Detail from "Harlem. Powell Lindsay, probably near the Lincoln Theatre," October 5, 1940. From the Carl Van Vechten Papers Relating to African American Arts and Letters (JWJ MSS 1050), Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Yale University.

