*La race noire dans la démocratie américaine*. Paris, France: Groupe d'études en vue du rapprochement international, 1922.

*The Christian Church and Slavery in America*. Washington, D.C.: Howard University, 1925. 

"what is the Negro Thinking in War Time?," *The Church Woman* (1943).

"An Army Within The Army," *The Army and Navy Chaplain 13*, no. 3 (1943).

"To Christians in the Armed Forced," *The Christian Endeavor World*, April 1, 1943. 

"Balance Sheet of the Negro America," *Christianity and Crisis 4*, no. 4 (1944).

"Our Racial Situation in the Light of the Judeo-Christian Tradition," *Religious Education 39*, no. 2 (1944).

"Religion and Racial Tension in America Today," *The Journal of Religious Thought 2*, no. 2 (1945). 

"The Influence of Institutional Christianity Upon Secular Power," *The Journal of Religious Thought 4*, no. 1 (1946).

"The Christian Fronteir in Race Relations," *The Southern Churchman* (1946).

"Howard U. Dean Recalls Dramatic Results In Calcutta Of The Spiritual Approach," *The Call*, February 20, 1948.

*The Christian Way in Race Relations*. New York, NY: Harper and Brothers, 1948. 

*Oases in cities*. London, UK: Friends Service Council, 1949.

*Bases of World Understanding: An Inquiry Into the Means of Resolving Racial, Religious, Class, and National Misapprehensions and Conflicts*. Calcutta, India: Calcutta University, 1949.

"A View of Negro Protestantism," *Phylon 17*, no. 3 (1956).

"Review of *The Gandhi Reader*," *The Journal of Negro Education 25*, no. 4 (1956).

"Mahatma Gandhi Lives In America," *The Hindustan Times*, January 30, 1958.

"The Tradition of Non-Violence and its Underlying Forces," *The Journal of Religious Thought* (1959).

"Thoreau and American Non-Violent Resistance," *The Massachusetts Review 4*, no. 1 (1962). 

"Thoreau and the Current Non-Violent Struggle for Integration," *The Thoreau Society Bulletin*, no. 88 (1964).
