*Findings concerning Negroes*. n.p., 1927.

"Germans Rebuke American Prejudice: Brand Views of Athletes as Barbaric Shun Tolan, Star of Cinder Path," *The Chicago Defender*, September 21, 1929.

"McMillan Finds German People Very Friendly" *The Chicago Defender*, October 5, 1929.

"American Makes Fine Record at German Capital: George Van Popular At U. S. Embassy Has Spent 30 Years in Europe," *The Chicago Defender*, November 2, 1929.

"Germans Left in Straits by the World War," *The Chicago Defender*, November 9, 1929.

"Nationality Means Little to Germany," *The Chicago Defender*, November 16, 1929. 

"German Youngsters Much Like Americans: They Are a Fine Lot of Happy Creatures," *The Chicago Defender*, January 25, 1930. 

"German Youngsters Much Like Americans," *The Chicago Defender*, February 1, 1930. 

"German People Show Keen Interest in Race Problem," *The Chicago Defender*, April 5, 1930. 

"Distorting a Speech," *The Washington Post*, July 19, 1934. 

"Negro Higher Education as I Have Known It," *The Journal of Negro Education 8*, no. 1 (1939). 

*Carl Schnaase als Hegelianer. Kunst und Geschichtsphilosophie*. Bonn, Germany: Druck H. Ludwig, 1933.

"The Negro Forty-Ninth State in the Light of the Jewish National Home," *The Journal of Negro Education 9*, no. 2 (1940).

"Review of *Five North Carolina Negro Educators*," *The Mississippi Valley Historical Review 27*, no. 1 (1940).

"Review of *Freedom of Thought in the Old South*," *The Journal of Negro Education 9*, no. 4 (1940).

"Review of *The Negro in English Romantic Thought. Or a Study of Sympathy for the Oppressed*," *The Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography 67*, no. 2 (1943).

"Light Which Two World Wars Throw Upon the Plight of the American Negro," *The Journal of Negro Education 12*, no. 3. (1943).

"Review of *American Negro Slave Revolts*," *The Mississippi Valley Historical Review 30*, no. 4 (1944).

"The Role of the Social Sciences in Ordering the Post-War World," *The Quarterly Review of Higher Education Among Negroes 12*, no. 3 (1944).

"What The German People Think Of The Negro G I," *The Chicago Defender*, October 29, 1949.

"War Babies: An Intimate Story Of How These Children Are Cared For Inside Hitler's Germany Today," *The Chicago Defender*, November 5, 1949.

*The Founding Of South Carolina's State College For Negroes*. Orangeburg, SC: Self-published, 1952.

*Negro Higher Education in the State of South Carolina*. Orangeburg, SC: Self-published, 1953.

"Cold Civil War: What happened in Orangeburg, So. Carolina when a group of Negroes petitioned the School Board to discontinue segregation in the schools. The Policy of 'Keeping The Nigger in His Place'," *The Hartford Courant*, April 22, 1956. 

"Anthony Bowen and the Y.M.C.A.," *Negro History Bulletin 21*, no. 7 (1958).
