"Sasswood," *Opportunity 5*, no. 7 (1927).

"The Contest Spotlight," *Opportunity 5*, no. 7 (1927).

"On Juvenile Deliquency," *The Ohio State News*, March 11, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 18, 1944. 

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 25, 1944. 

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 1, 1944. 

"Agrees With Mrs. Fulton's Views On Rev. Wilbur Page," *The Ohio State News*, April 8, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 8, 1944. 

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 15, 1944. 

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 22, 1944. 

"Seeks UL Cleanliness," *The Ohio State News*, April 15, 1944. 

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 29, 1944. 

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 6, 1944. 

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 13, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 20, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 27, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 3, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 10, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 24, 1944.

"Mr., Mrs. Albert L. Jones Serve Community Well In 31 Years Of Married Life," *The Ohio State News*, July 1, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 1, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 8, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 15, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 22, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 29, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 5, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 12, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 19, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 26, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 2, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 9, 1944.

"Answer To Mr. Edwards," *The Ohio State News*, September 16, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 16, 1944.

"Wilberforce Club Meets At St. Paul AME Church Sunday," *The Ohio State News*, September 23, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 23, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 30, 1944.

"Testimonial For Marches," *The Ohio State News*, October 7, 1944.

"Laws CHange Social Picture, Says Biddle At UL'S Opening Session," *The Ohio State News*, October 7, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 7, 1944.

"Columbus Greets National Urban League Meeting," *Michigan Chronicle*, October 7, 1944.

"'The Right To Work Is The Right To Live,' Says FEPC Chairman", *New Journal and Guide*, October 14, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 14, 1944.

"Shad Jones At AME Confab Gives His Views of Events," *The Ohio State News*, October 21, 1944.

"Russell A. Jackson's: Very Truly Yours..," *The Ohio State News*, October 21, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 21, 1944.

"Simeon Dyer Honored Here," *The Ohio State News*, October 28, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 28, 1944.

"Walter White Speaks On Negro Soldiers In Europe," *The Ohio State News*, October 28, 1944.

"Says Barlett Free of Bias," *The Ohio State News*, November 4, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 4, 1944.

"Cpl. Leonard Hebron Cited For Bravery On Italian Front," *The Ohio State News*, November 11, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 11, 1944.

"New YMCA Secretary Comes Here With Wide Experience," *The Ohio State News*, November 18, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 18, 1944.

"Kentucky Teacher Feature Speaker At VL's Meeting," *The Ohio State News*, November 25, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 25, 1944.

"Seaman Kelly On Furlough From European Theatre," *The Ohio State News*, December 2, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 2, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 9, 1944.

"Home of YMCA Secretary Vandalized By 'Neighbors'," *The Ohio State News*, December 16, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 16, 1944.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 30, 1944.

"NEWS Employees Annual Party Saturday Night Is 'One Whale Of An Affair'," *The Ohio State News*, January 6, 1945.

"Mr. Jones Describes Santa's Coming To Bronzeville'," *The Ohio State News*, January 6, 1945.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 6, 1945.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 13, 1945.

"Charles Greenwood First Pennsylvania Steward," *The Ohio State News*, January 20, 1945.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 20, 1945.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 3, 1945.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 10, 1945.

"Our Mr. Jones Turns Inquiring Reporter On Poll Tax Issue," *The Ohio State News*, February 17, 1945.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 17, 1945.

"Interviews On Wilberforce," *The Ohio State News*, February 24, 1945.

"History of Wilberforce Is Summed Up for Readers," *The Ohio State News*, February 24, 1945.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 24, 1945.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 3, 1945.

"Holiday Saddened With News Son Is Killed, Another Missing In Pacific," *The Ohio State News*, January 5, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 5, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 12, 1946.

"Jones Mistake," *The Ohio State News*, January 19, 1946.

"Score Reported Dead As Elie Lescot Is Ousted As Strong Man Of Haiti," *The Ohio State News*, January 19, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 19, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 26, 1946.

"Mr. Shad Jones Writes Briefly On Mr Lincoln," *The Ohio State News*, February 9, 1946.

"Our Mr. Jones, It Seems, Pleased By Thurber, Jackson," *The Ohio State News*, February 9, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 9, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 16, 1946.

"A Word About George Washington," *The Ohio State News*, February 23, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 23, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 2, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 9, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 16, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 23, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 30, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 6, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 13, 1946.

"Barbara Sue Is Victim of 'Veil' In Spelling Bee," *The Ohio State News*, April 20, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 20, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 27, 1946.

"Miss Jackson Eliminated From Spelling Bee Finals," *The Ohio State News*, May 4, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 4, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 11, 1946.

"Oldest Resident In Columbus Dies At Home Of Daughter," *The Ohio State News*, May 18, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 18, 1946.

"Champion Junior High Graduate Has Perfect Record, And Likes Airplanes," *The Ohio State News*, May 25, 1946.

"Model Plane Contest, Bomber Show Thrill Thousands At Lockbourne Army Air Base," *The Ohio State News*, May 25, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 25, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 1, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 8, 1946.

"Chemist Baffles Attorney In Proving Driver Was Stewed," *The Ohio State News*, June 22, 1946.

"Court Martial Navy Musician," *The Ohio State News*, June 22, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 22, 1946.

"Is Mt. Vernon Ave. Improving? Reporter Asks; He Receives 'Yes' And 'No' Answers," *The Ohio State News*, June 29, 1946.

"It Was A Tough Fight, Ma, But The Rat Won From Snake," *The Ohio State News*, June 29, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 29, 1946.

"Judge Orders Bailiff Home To Enforce Eviction Order," *The Ohio State News*, July 6, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 6, 1946.

"Confusing Testimony, Not Lodge Membership, Frees Man," *The Ohio State News*, July 13, 1946.

"Two Youths, First Offenders Sent To Industrial School," *The Ohio State News*, July 13, 1946.

"Religious Play 'At Sunset' At Second Baptist," *The Ohio State News*, July 13, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 13, 1946.

"Spotlight Of America On Georgia As Talmadge Seeks Governorship," *The Ohio State News*, July 20, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 20, 1946.

"NAACP Announces Political Action Program In Line With Ohio State NEWS National Confab Editorial," *The Ohio State News*, August 3, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 3, 1946.

"General Davis Delivers Keynote Address At Fronteirs' National Convention," *The Ohio State News*, August 24, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 24, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 31, 1946.

"Atty. Capers Pleads For Intelligent Use Of Ballot At NAACP Mass Meeting," *The Ohio State News*, September 7, 1946.

"Considerate Bandit Holds Up Bubbles' Store To Tune of $132," *The Ohio State News*, September 7, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 7, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 14, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 21, 1946.

"Jay Brown--His Body Disabled, This Ex-GI Fights On For His Place Under The Sun," *The Ohio State News*, September 28, 1946.

"Columbistes Overjoyed That 477th Will Remain," *The Ohio State News*, September 28, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 28, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 5, 1946.

"Treadwell Denies Alleged $30,000 Stickup At Grove City 'Farmhouse'," *The Ohio State News*, October 12, 1946.

"UNAVA Dedicates Efforts To Stamping Out Jim Crow," *The Ohio State News*, October 12, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 12, 1946.

"Tyler's Drugs Observes 25th Anniversary In Columbus Area," *The Ohio State News*, October 19, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 19, 1946.

"Loren Miller, California Attorney, Attacks Covenants At VL Mass Meet," *The Ohio State News*, October 26, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 26, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 2, 1946.

"Thomas E. Miller Is Speaker At Investment Association Dinner," *The Ohio State News*, November 9, 1946.

"The American Way: Eastside Family Of Nine Is 'Living' In Single Room!," *The Ohio State News*, November 9, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 9, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 16, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 23, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 30, 1946.

"Fight On Against Injustice Woodard Tells Columbus Audience At NAACP Mass Meet," *The Ohio State News*, December 7, 1946.

"Dinner With Blind Group Does Wonders With Our Mr. Jones," *The Ohio State News*, December 7, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 7, 1946.

"Dinni Marie Berger Recital Is Enjoyed GReatly By Reviewer," *The Ohio State News*, December 14, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 14, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 21, 1946.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 28, 1946.

"Police Blotter Stuffed During First Week Of The New Year," *The Ohio State News*, January 11, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 4, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 11, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 18, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 25, 1947.

"Fire Guts East Market; Origin Undetermined," *The Ohio State News*, February 8, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 1, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 8, 1947.

"Girl Student Is Beating Victim," *The Ohio State News*, February 15, 1947.

"Mr. Jones Joins Miss Hunter's Vast Mob Of Staunch Admirers," *The Ohio State News*, February 15, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 15, 1947.

"Turpeau Succumbs Thursday," *The Ohio State News*, February 22, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 22, 1947.

"FEPC Hearing To Be March 4," *The Ohio State News*, March 1, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 1, 1947.

"Appeal Race Covenant Case," *The Ohio State News*, March 8, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 8, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 15, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 22, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, March 29, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 5, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 12, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 19, 1947.

"Columbus Churchdom Pays Tribute To E. L. Nix," *The Ohio State News*, April 26, 1947.

"Review of *Lydia Bailey*," *The Ohio State News*, April 26, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, April 26, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 3, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 10, 1947.

"Bromfield Says England Aids Split, Rule Policy In Palestine," *The Ohio State News*, May 17, 1947.

"Review of *Black Anger*," *The Ohio State News*, May 17, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 17, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 24, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, May 31, 1947.

"Robert Mitchell Gains High Honors At OSU," *The Ohio State News*, June 7, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 7, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 14, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 21, 1947.

"Review of *The Future Is Yours*," *The Ohio State News*, June 28, 1947.

"'Tennis Shoe' Thief Admits 225 Burgles," *The Ohio State News*, June 28, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, June 28, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 5, 1947.

"Randolph Warns Of Unfinished Civil War," *The Ohio State News*, July 12, 1947.

"Review of *Kitty*," *The Ohio State News*, July 12, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 12, 1947.

"Shad Jones Gives Dr. Dugger A Sendoff," *The Ohio State News*, July 19, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 19, 1947.

"Review of *Masters of the Dew*," *The Ohio State News*, July 26, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, July 26, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 2, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 9, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, August 16, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 6, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 13, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 20, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, September 27, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 11, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, October 18, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 1, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 8, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 15, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, November 22, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 13, 1947.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, December 20, 1947.

"Shad Jones Looks At Good Side Of Old Year," *The Ohio State News*, January 3, 1948.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 10, 1948.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 17, 1948.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 24, 1948.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, January 31, 1948.

"New Jersey In Move To Abolish Segregation," *The Ohio State News*, February 14, 1948.

"The Inner Wheel," *The Ohio State News*, February 21, 1948.

"Grievous Error," *The Ohio State News*, March 20, 1948.

"'Joe Is Still A Sucker For A Right Hand'," *The Ohio State News*, June 19, 1948.

"Surrey with fringe on bottom," *The Ohio State News*, June 19, 1948.

"It Can't Be Done?," *The Ohio State News*, May 21, 1949.

"It Seems To Me...," *The Ohio State News*, June 11, 1949.
