*African muisc in South Africa*. n.p., n.d.

"Bantu Law and Western Civilisation in South Africa: A Study in the Clash of Cultures." M.A. thesis, Yale University, 1934.

*Africa holds her own*. n.p., 1934.

"The Tribal Spirit Among Educated South Africans," *Man 35* (1935).

"An African View of Indirect Rule in Africa," *Journal of the Royal African Society 36*, no. 145 (1937).

"Marriage Customs among the Barlong," *Africa: Journal of the International African Institute 13*, no. 1 (1940).

"A Short History of the Tshidi Barolong," *Fort Hare Papers* (1945).

"The African Response To Racial Laws," *Foreign Affairs 30*, no. 1 (1951).
 
*Africa today and tomorrow*. New York, NY: Union Theological Seminary, 1953.

*Apartheid forum*. New York, NY: International House, 1953.

*The Crisis In South Africa*. New York, NY: Christianity and Crisis, Inc., 1953. 

"Review of *The Choice Before South Africa*, *The Peoples and Policies of South Africa*, *Racial Separation in South Africa*," *Journal of International Affairs 7*, no. 2 (1953).

"APARTHEID--Another View," *Journal of International Affairs 7*, no. 2 (1953). 

*The University College of Fort Hare*. Alice, South Africa: 1957.

"Non-White Political Organizations," *Africa Today 4*, no. 6 (1957). 

*African awakening and the universities*. Cape Town, South Africa: University of Cape Town, 1961. 

*Social relations in a common South African society*. Johannesburg, South Africa: Anglo American Corp. of South Africa, 1961.

"Christian Education in a Changing Africa," *International Review of Mission 52*, no. 205 (1963).

*Africa survey report*. Geneva: World Council of Churches, Division of Inter-Church Aid, Refugee and World Service, 1964.

*Responsible Government in a Revolutionary Age*. New York, NY: Association Press, 1966.

"The Ecumenical Programme for Emergency in Africa," *The Ecumenical Review 19*, no. 2 (1967).

*Freedom For My People: The Autobiography of Z.K. Matthews, Southern Africa 1901 to 1968*. Cape Town: Africasouth Paperbacks, 1983.
