"Review of *The College-bred Negro American*," *The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 40* (1912).

*The Negro at Work in New York City: A Study in Economic Progress.* New York, NY: Columbia University, 1912. 

"Review of *Black and White in South East Africa*," *The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 47* (1913).

"Conditions among Negroes in the Cities," *The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 49* (1913).

"Review of *The Free Negro in Virginia, 1619-1865*," *The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 53* (1914).

"Review of *The Negro Races: A Sociological Study. Vol. II*," *The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 60* (1915).

"Review of *The Pan-Angles; A Consideration of the Federation of the Seven English-Speaking Nations*," *The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 60* (1915).

"Review of *Black and White in the Southern States*," *The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 69* (1917).

*Negro New-Comers in Detroit, Michigan: A Challenge to Christian Statesmanship; A Preliminary Survey.* New York, NY: Home Missions Council, 1918.

*Negro Migration in 1916-17*. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1919. 

"Effect of War Conditions on Negro Labor," *Proceedings of the Academy of Political Science in the City of New York 8*, no. 2 (1919).

*Negro Americans*. New York, NY: Home Missions Council, and Council of Women for Home Missions, 1921. 

*The Negro at Work During the World War and During Reconstruction; Statistics, Problems, and Policies Relating to the Greater Inclusion of Negro Wage Earners in American Industry and Agriculture*. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1921. 

*The Trend of the Races*. New York, NY: Council of Women for Home Missions and Missonary Education Movement of the United States and Canada, 1922.

*Negro Migration and Its Implications North and South: An Address*. New York, NY: American Missionary Association, 1923.

*Foreign markets for automobile servicing appliances: compiled from reports of oversea representatives of the Departments of Commerce and State*. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1927. 

*Report of the Young Mens' Christian Association in South Africa*. n.p., 1930.

"Communists are Bidding For Negro Loyalty," *The Southern Workman 62*, no. 4 (1933). 

*Case Studies of 10 Rural Communities and 10 Plantations in Arkansas*. New York, NY: Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, 1935. 

*Cotton-growing Communities*. New York, NY: Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, 1935. 

"The American Negro in the Changing Economic Order," *The Journal of Negro Education 5*, no. 1 (1936). 

"Negro Americans and the Churches," *World Call*, November 13, 1936. 

*What Price American Progress?," Self-published, 1938. 

"Negro Technicians in American Progress," *The Journal of Negro Education 8*, no. 1 (1939). 

*Toward Interracial Peace; A Description of the Movement in the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America to Discover Methods and Techniques for Applying Justice and Good Will in Race Relations Through the Evangelical Churches of the United States* New York, NY: n.p., 1940.

"Changing Racial Attitudes and Customs," *Phylon 2*, no. 1 (1941).

*Behind the Race Conflicts*. New York, NY: Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, 1944.

"The Interracial Clinic," *The Journal of Negro Education 14*, no. 2 (1945). 

"Public Approbation as a Means of Changing Interracial Attitudes and Customs," *Social Forces 24*, no. 1 (1945).

*The work of the Department of Race Relations of the Federal Council of Churches*. New York, NY: n.p., 1945. 

*Along the interracial front*. New York, NY: n.p., 1945.

*The Unfinished Interracial Task of the Churches*. n.p., 1945. 

*The Clinical Approach to Race Relations; How to Promote Interracial Health in Your Community*. New York, NY: Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, 1946.

"Clinical Methods in Interracial and Intercultural Relations," *The Journal of Educational Sociology 19*, no. 5 (1946). 

*Enlistment for Brotherhood in Your Community: Program Building, Organization, Teaching Devices*. New York, NY: Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, 1947.

*Africa, Continent of the Future.* New York, NY: Association Press, 1951. 

*Crisis in South Africa: struggle for land leads to domination*. New York, NY: Powell-Savory Corp., 1952. 

"Review of *The South African Treason Trial*," *Africa Today 5*, no. 3 (1958). 

"Review of *Passive Resistance in South Africa*," *The Journal of Negro Education 27*, no. 2 (1958).

"Americans Look at Africa," *The Journal of Negro Education 27*, no. 1 (1958). 
