*The Negro Race Under a Curse: an Examination of Genesis IX, 25*. London, UK: Wertheim, Macintosh & Hunt, 1852. 

*The Duty of a Rising Christian State to Contribute to the World's Well being and Civilization, and the Means by wWhich it may Perform the Same*. London, UK: Werteim and Macintosh, 1856.

*The Relations and Duties of Free Colored Men in America to Africa : a Letter to Charles B. Dunbar, M.D., Esq., of New York City* Hartford, CT: Press of Case, Lockwood and Co., 1861.

*The Future of Africa: Being Addresses, Sermons, Etc., Etc., Delivered in the Republic of Liberia*. New York, NY: C. Scribner, 1862. 

*Emigration, an Aid to the Evangelization of Africa: a Sermon*. Boston, MA: Press of T.R. Marvin & Son, 1865. 

*The Social Principle among a People and its Bearing on their Progress and Development*. Washington DC: n.p., 1875. 

*Our National Mistakes and Remedy for Them*. Preston, UK: H. Oakey, 1870.

*Marriage and Divorce: A Sermon*. Washington, DC: C. W. Brown, 1881. 

*The Greatness of Christ: And Other Sermons*. New York, NY: T. Whittaker, 1882. 

*The Eulogy on Henry Highland Garnet, D.D. Presbyterian minister, Late Minister Resident of the U.S. to the Republic of Liberia*. Washington, DC: n.p., 1882.

*The Black Woman of the South , Her Neglects and Her Needs*. Cincinnati, OH: Woman's Home Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church, 1883.

*A Defence of the Negro Race in America : from the Assaults and Charges of Rev. J.L. Tucker, D.D., of Jackson, Miss.* Washington, DC: Judd & Detweiler, 1883. 

*Common Sense in Common Schooling: A Sermon*. Washington, DC: n.p., 1886.

*The Race Problem in America*. Washington, DC: William R. Morrison, 1889. 

*Africa and America: Addresses and Discourses*. Springfield, MA: Willey & Co., 1891. 

*Look Within*. Springfield, MA: Willey & Co., 1891. 

*Charitable Institutions in Colored Churches*. Washington, DC: Press of R. L. Pendleton, 1892. 

*The Shades and the Lights of a Fifty Years' Ministry*. Washington, DC: Press of R. L. Pendleton, 1894. 

*Incidents of Hope for the Negro Race in America*. Washington, DC: Press of R. L. Pendleton, 1895. 

*The Solution of Problems: The Duty and Destiny of Man*. Philadelphia, PA: Recorder Printers, 1898. 

*Civilization The Primal Need of the Race: The annual sermon at the Commencement of Wilberforce University*. Washington, DC: The Academy, 1898. 

*Euology on the Life and Services of Hon. Frederick Douglass*. s.l.: n.p., 189?.
