"Job Hunters" in *Black Theatre USA: Plays by African Americans 1847 to Today*. New York, NY: Free Press, 1996. (originally published in 1922).

*Rocky Roads*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1926).

*Illicit Love*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1927).

*Silas Brown*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1927).

"Some Whys and Wherefores of College Dramatics," *The Crisis* 37, no. 3 (1930). 

*The Devil's Prince*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1930).

*Everyman's Land*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1930).

*Hewers of the Wood*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1930).

*The Phantom Treasure*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1930). 

*Shades and Shadows*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1930).

*The Tribal Chief*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1930).

"What Good are College Dramatics," *The Crisis* 41, no. 8 (1934).

*Bad Man*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1934).

*Bleeding Hearts*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1934).

*Breeders*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1934).

*The New Window*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1934).

*Old Man Pete*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1934).

*Nat Turner*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1935).

*For Fatherland*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1935). 

*Yellow Death*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1935).

"Education in Self-Contempt," *The Crisis* 45, no. 8 (1938).

"Out-of-date Colleges," *The Crisis* 45, no. 11 (1938).

"Fraternities at the Crossroads," *The Crisis* 46, no. 10 (1939). 

*Gangsters Over Harlem*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1939).

*The High Court of Astoria*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1939).

*The Land of Cotton*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1941).

*The Shadow Across the Path*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1943).

*The Shape of Wars to Come*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1943).

*Earth and Stars*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1946).

"The Negro Little Theatre Movement," *Negro History Bulletin* 12, no. 4 (1949). 

"Return of the Plantation Tradition," *Phylon* 10, no. 1 (1949).

*Whatever the Battle Be*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1950).

"Social and Religious Drama," *Phylon* 12, no. 3 (1951).

*Prometheus and the Atom*. Alexander Street Press (originally published in 1955).

*The playmakers in Africa*. Self-published, 1959.

"A Suggested Centennial Program for the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History," *Negro History Bulletin* 24, no. 5 (1961).

"A Suggested Bicentennial Program," *Negro History Bulletin* 38, no. 4 (1975).

