"The Problems of Sources and Methods in History Teaching," *The School Review* 24, no. 5 (1916).

"The Struggle for the Recognition of Haiti and Liberia as Independent Republics," *The Journal of Negro History* 4, no. 4 (1917).

"Lincoln's Plan for Colonizing the Emancipated Negroes," *The Journal of Negro History* 4, no. 1 (1919).

"The Employment of Negroes as Soldiers in the Confederate Army," *The Journal of Negro History* 4, no. 3 (1919).

"Review of *A Century of Negro Migration*," *The Journal of Negro History* 4, no. 3 (1919).

"Remy Ollier, Mauritian Journalist and Patriot," *The Journal of Negro History* 6, no. 1 (1921).

*Negro history in the school curriculum*. Washington, DC.: Howard University Press, 1925.

"Reveiw of *Negro Labor in the United States, 1850-1925*," *The American Historical Review* 33, no. 1 (1927).

*Negro Labor in the United States, 1850-1925: A Study in American Economic History*. New York, NY: Vanguard Press, 1927.

*The History of Alpha Phi Alpha: A Development In College Life*. Wasington, DC: Howard University Press, 1929.

"The Negro in the West Indies, Slavery and Freedom," *The Journal of Negro History* 17, no. 1 (1932).

"The Neglected Period of Emancipation in Great Britain 1807-1823," *The Journal of Negro History* 17, no. 2 (1932).

"The Rise of Negro Education in the British Empire--I," *The Journal of Negro Education* 1, no. 3 (1932).

"The Rise of Negro Education in the British Empire--II," *The Journal of Negro Education* 2, no. 1 (1933).

"The Emancipation of the Free Colored Population in the British Empire," *The Journal of Negro History* 19, no. 2 (1934).

"Review of *The Evolution of the Negro College*," *The Journal of Negro History* 20, no. 1 (1935).

"Education and Propaganda," *The Journal of Negro Education* 4, no. 2 (1935).

"The Reconstruction of History," *The Journal of Negro History* 20, no. 4 (1935).

*Richard Allen: Apostle of Freedom*. Washington, DC: The Associated Publishers, Inc., 1935.

"Review of *The Rape of Africa*," *The Journal of Negro History* 21, no. 3 (1936).

"The Religious Attitudes of Negro Youth-A Preliminary Study of Opinion in an Urban and a Rural Community," *The Journal of Negro History* 21, no. 4 (1936).

"Negroes as Americans," *The Journal of Negro Education 6*, no. 1 (1937).

"Race Distinctions Written into Law," *The Journal of Negro Education 6*, no. 2 (1937).

*The Collapse of the Confederacy*. Washington, DC: The Associated Publishers, Inc., 1937.

"Division and Reunion," *The Journal of Negro Education* 7, no. 1 (1938).

"Nation-Wide History Membership Campagin," *Negro History Bulletin* 1, no. 5 (1938).

"The Abolition of Negro Apprenticeship in the British Empire," *The Journal of Negro History* 23, no. 2 (1938).

"The Negroes of New York in the Emancipation Movement," *The Journal of Negro History* 24, no. 1 (1939).

"Reconstruction Unreconstructed," *The Journal of Negro Education* 8, no. 2 (1939).

"Review of *Southern Negroes, 1861-1865*," *The American Historical Review* 44, no. 3 (1939).

"Organized Labor and the Negro," *The Journal of Negro Education* 8, no. 3 (1939).

"Negro Education on the Graduate Level," *The Journal of Negro Education* 9, no. 1 (1940).

"Review of *Black Folk Then and Now*," *The Journal of Negro Education* 9, no. 1 (1940).

"The Concept of Negro Inferiority in American Thought," *The Journal of Negro History* 24, no. 4 (1940). 

*The Negro in the Americas*. Washington, DC: Graduate School, Howard University, 1940.

*A Brief History of 75 Years of Negro Progress*. Detroit, MI: n.p., 1940.

"Education for Citizenship in a Democracy," *The Journal of Negro Education* 10, no. 1 (1941).

"Review of *Gullah: Negro Life in the Carolina Sea Islands*," *The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science* 24 (1941).

"Negro Autobiography and History," *The Journal of Negro Education* 10, no. 2 (1941).

"The Negro in the Organization of Abolition," *Phylon* 2, no. 3 (1941).

"The Negro and the School Histories," *The Journal of Negro Education* 10, no. 4 (1941).

*A manual of research and thesis-writing for graduate students*. Washington, DC: Graduate School, Howard University, 1941.

"The Northern Crusade in Negro Education," *The Journal of Negro Education* 11, no. 1 (1942).

"Review of *The Economic History of Liberia*," *The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science* 220 (1942).

"Manifests of Slave Shipments Along the Waterways, 1808-1864," *The Journal of Negro History* 27, no. 2 (1942).

"The Outlook for the Graduate and Professional Education of Negroes," *The Journal of Negro Education* 11, no. 3 (1942).

"The Participation of Negroes in Anti-Slavery Political Parties," *The Journal of Negro History* 29, no. 1 (1944).

"The Negro Citizen In Our Wars For Freedom," *Negro History Bulletin* 7, no. 4 (1944).

"Freedom Through the Truth," *Christian Education* 27, no. 4 (1944).

"The Negro's Struggle for Freedom in Its Birthplace," *The Journal of Negro History* 30, no. 1 (1945).

"Negro Suffrage in the Period of Constitution-Making, 1787-1865," *The Journals of Negro History* 32, no. 2 (1947).

"International Aspects of the Negro's Status in the United States," *Negro History Bulletin* 11, no. 5 (1948).

"Religion and Education," *Christian Education* 31, no. 3 (1948).

"Liberia Begins Its Second Century," *Negro History Bulletin* 12, no. 3 (1948).

"Retrospect and Prospect," *Negro History Bulletin* 13, no. 8 (1950).

"Carter G. Woodson-as a Scholar," *The Journal of Negro History* 36, no. 1 (1951).

"Racial Historical Societies and the American Heritage," *The Journal of Negro History* 37, no. 1 (1952).

"The Dilemma of the Rights of Man," *The Journal of Negro History* 38, no. 1 (1953).

"How the A.S.N.L.H. Influences Education," *Negro History Bulletin* 17, no. 2 (1953).

"The Association and the Public," *Negro History Bulletin* 17, no. 4 (1954).

"Thirty-Ninth Annual Meeting," *Negro History Bulletin* 18, no. 1 (1954).

"Report From St. Louis," *Negro History Bulletin * 18, no. 5 (1955).

*History of the Improved Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks of the World, 1898-1954*. Washington, DC: Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, 1955.

"Do Negroes Believe In Themselves?," *Negro History Bulletin* 21, no. 1 (1957).

"Ebony Honors Association's Founder," *Negro History Bulletin* 21, no. 6 (1958).

*Negro Makers of History*. Washington, DC: The Associated Publishers, Inc., 1958.

*The Story of the Negro Retold*. Washington, DC: The Associated Publishers, Inc., 1959.

"Douglass For Hall of Fame," *Negro History Bulletin* 24, no. 1 (1960).

"Letters About 'Uncle Tom'," *Negro History Bulletin* 24, no. 3 (1960).

"Resurgence In Africa's Historical Tradition And The Ameriacn Reaction," *Negro History Bulletin* 24, no. 4 (1961).

"Exhibition," *Negro History Bulletin* 24, no. 5 (1961).

"Review of *Why the North Won the Civil War*," *The Journal of Southern History* 27, no. 2 (1961).

*The History of the Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Ohio, 1849-1960: An Epoch in American Fraternalism*. Wilberforce, OH: Central State College Press, 1961.

"Cover: First Proclamation By The Governor Of Ohio," *Negro History Bulletin* 25, no. 6 (1962).

"The Civil War and the Negro-American," *The Journal of Negro History* 47, no. 2 (1962).

"WLIB Radio Broadcast: You and the News," *Negro History Bulletin* 25, no. 8 (1962).

"Negro History Week: A Cooperative Efford In Atlanta," *Negro History Bulletin* 25, no. 8 (1962).

"ASNLH Annual Meeting," *Negro History Bulletin* 25, no. 8 (1962).

"Racial History in Our Schools," *Negro History Bulletin* 25, no. 8 (1962).

*Ohio Negroes in the Civil War*. Columbus, OH: Ohio State University Press, 1962.

"Little Known Abolitionist," *Negro History Bulletin* 26, no. 7 (1963).

"Creating and Maintaining an Historical Tradition," *The Journal of Negro History* 49, no. 1 (1964).

"Crown of Gold," *Negro History Bulletin* 27, no. 8 (1964).

"To Us From Falling Hands," *Negro History Bulletin* 27, no. 8 (1964).

"Review of *Tuskegee Institute Conference on Disadvantage*," *The Journal of Higher Education* 36, no. 1 (1965).

"The Great Man Theory of Emancipation," *Negro History Bulletin* 28, no. 5 (1965).

"Dr. Wesley Receives Award at ASNLH Annual Meeting, Detroit, 1964," *Negro History Bulletin* 28, no. 5 (1965).

"Message from the ASNLH President," *Negro History Bulletin* 28, no. 8 (1965).

"W.E.B. DuBois--The Historian," *The Journal of Negro History* 50, no. 3 (1965).

"An Aspect of Bibliography and Research in Negro History," *Negro History Bulletin* 29, no. 3 (1965).

"Dr Wesley's Foreword to the Pictorial History of the American Negro," *Negro History Bulletin* 29, no. 5 (1966).

"Fiftieth Anniversary of the Journal of Negro History," *The Journal of Negro History* 51, no. 2 (1966).

*The Negro in Our History*. Washington, DC: The Associated Publishers, Inc., 1966.

"Review of *The Negro-American in Paperbacks: A Selected List of Paperbound Books Compiled and Annotated for Secondary School Students*," *Negro History Bulletin* 30, no. 5 (1967).

"Review of *The Negro American: A Documentary History by Leslie H. Fishel Jr., Benjamin Quarles The Negro in 20th Century America. A Reader on the Struggle for Civil Rights*," *Negro History Bulletin* 31, no. 1 (1968).

"Henry O. Tanner The Artist," *Negro History Bulletin* 31, no. 1 (1968). 

"The Annual Report," *The Jouranl of Negro History* 53, no. 1 (1968).

*The Quest for Equality. From Civil War to Civil Rights*. New York, NY: Publishers Co., 1968.

*Negro Citizenship in the United States: The Fourteenth Amendment and the Negro-American, Its Concepts and Developments, 1868-1968*. Washington, DC: Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, 1968.

*The Collapse of the Confederacy*. New York, NY: Russell & Russell, Inc., 1968.

*The History of the Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Ohio, 1849-1971 : An Epoch in American Fraternalism*.  Washington, DC: Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, 1968.

*Negro Americans in the Civil War; From Slavery to Citizenship*. New York, NY: Publishers Co., 1968. 

"The Annual Report for 1969," *The Jouranl of Negro History* 54, no. 1 (1969).

*In Freedom's Footsteps : From The African Background To The Civil War*. New York, NY: Publishers Co., 1969.

*Neglected History: Essays in Negro American History by a College President*. Wilberforce, OH: Central State College Press, 1969.

*Richard Allen, Apostle of Freedom*. Washington, DC: The Associated Publishers, Inc., 1969.

*History of Sigma Pi Phi: First of the Negro-American Greek-Letter Fraternities*. Washington, DC: Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, Washington, 1969.

"Annual Report of the Director," *The Journal of Negro History* 55, no. 1 (1970).

"The Need for Research in the Development of Black Studies Programs," *The Journal of Negro Education* 39, no. 3 (1970).

*The Fifteenth Amendment and Black America, 1870-1970*. Washington, DC: Associated Publishers, 1970.

*Women Builders*. Washington, DC: Associated Publishers, 1970.

"Annual Report," *The Journal of Negro History* 56, no. 1 (1971).

"Ethiopia," *Negro History Bulletin* 35, no. 1 (1972).

"Black Studies and History Week," *Negro History Bulletin* 35, no. 2 (1972).

"Racism in History," *Negro History Bulletin* 35, no. 3 (1972).

"Racism and Voting," *Negro History Bulletin* 35, no. 5 (1922).

*Afro-American Encyclopedia*. Miami, FL: Educational Book Publishers, 1974.

*Henry Arthur Callis: Life and Legacy*. Baltimore, MD: Foundation Publishers, 1977.

*Prince Hall, Life and Legacy*. Washington, DC: United Supreme Council, Southern Jurisdiction, Prince Hall Affiliation, 1977.

"John W. Davis," *The Journal of Negro History* 66, no. 1 (1981).

*The History of the National Association of Colored Women's Clubs, Inc.: A Legacy of Service*. Washington, DC: National Association of Colored Women's Clubs, Inc., 1984.
