*Negro Evolution*. Talladega, AL: n.p., 1900.

*Abraham Lincoln, Man and Statesman (Abridged)*. Talladega, AL: Self-published, 1910.

*Grounds of hope for the American Negro*. New York, NY: American Missionary Association, 1911.

*The Heir of Slaves: An Autobiography*. Boston, MA: The Pilgrim Press, 1911. 

*The Ultimate Effects of Segregation & Discrimination: The Seldom Thought on The Negro Problem*. n.p., 1915.

*The New Negro: His Political, Civil and Mental Status and Related Essays*. New York, NY: Neale Publishing Company, 1916.

*The Negro In The Light Of The Great War*. Baltimore, MD: n.p., 1918. 

*The Lowest Struggler in the Struggle for Democracy*. Baltimore, MD: Morgan College, 1918.

*The Kind of Democracy the Negro Race Expects*. Baltimore, MD: Herald Printing Company, 1919. 

*Lynching and Debt-Slavery*. New York, NY: American Civil Liberties Union, 1921.

*Nannie Burroughs and the School of the Three B’s*. New York, NY: n.p., 1921.

*The Vengeance of the Gods: And Three Other Stories of Real American Color Line Life*. Philadelphia, PA: The A.M.E. Book Concern, 1922. 

*Bursting Bonds*. Boston, MA: Jordan & More Press, 1923.

"The 'Colored' United States; Arkansas—A Study in Suppresion," *The Messenger 5*, no. 1 (1923).

"Things Nobody Believes; A Lesson In Religion," *The Messenger 5*, no. 2 (1923).

"Intelligent Christianity; Not the Fear of Hell," *The Messenger 5*, no. 4 (1923).

"Review of *The Modern Ku Klux Klan*," *The Messenger 5*, no. 5 (1923).

"A Platform For Black and White," *The Messenger 5*, no. 9 (1923).

"Art and Propaganda," *The Messenger 6*, no. 4 (1924).

*American Aesop: Negro and Other Humor*. Boston, MA: The Jordan & More Press, 1926.

*Racial Segregation*. New York, NY: Fellowship of Reconciliation, 1927.

*Frederick Douglass and The Spirit of Freedom (Abridged)*. New York, NY: Self-published, 1931.

*Aftermath of a Lynching*. New York, NY: National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, 1931.

"Why the Negro Must Be Anti-Fascist," *New Masses 31*, no. 10 (1939).

