"The Hart Farm School: Its Founder Now Needs Financial Aid To Carry On The Good Work," *New-York Tribune*, October 14, 1901. 

"The Beam In Our Own Eye," *Chicago Daily Tribune*, July 10, 1917.

*The African Abroad, or, his Evolution in Western Civilization, Tracing his Development under Caucasian Milieu.* New Haven, CT: Tuttle, Morehouse and Taylor Press, 1913.

*Alexander Crummell: An Apostle of Negro Culture.* Washington, DC: American Negro Academy, 1920.

"But Father Time's on the Job," *Half-Century Magazine 3*, no. 3 (1917).

"Tom Paine, the Black Man's Friend," *Negro World*, February 19, 1921. 

"The Passing of Dr. George Trumbull Ladd," *Negro World*, August 27, 1921.

"Defense Subject Entitled My Fight With the Lions," *Negro World*, August 27, 1921.

"The Poetic Contest - How the Winners Were Selected," *Negro World*, December 24, 1921. 

"For What Do We Live" *Negro World*, March 18, 1922. 

"The Negro in American History," *Negro World*, April 1, 1922. 

"The African in Western Lands," *Negro World*, April 8, 1922.

"Liberia, the Land of Opportunities," *Negro World*, September 30, 1922.

"World's Ten Greatest Novels--Why Rene Maran's 'Batouala' Won Concourt Prize? Novels For Propaganda," *Negro World*, October 28, 1922.

"Eric D. Walrond, of the Negro World, writes 'On Being Black' in the The New Repulbic," *Negro World*, November 18, 1922.

"Book Reviews," *Negro World*, December 30, 1922. 

"Educational Supplement: Review of *Civilization in the United States: An Inquiry by Thirty Americans*," *Messenger 5*, no. 5 (1923).

"Among Late Books," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, August 30, 1924.

"Bishop P.A. Wallace Concludes N.J. Conference of A.M.E. Zion Church," *The New York Amsterdam News*, May 13, 1925.

"Would Refuse To Seat Non-Race Voting States Senators: Questions Right Of Senators Elected In Several Southern States To Sit In The Senate Figures Indicate, For Example, That Three Times As Many Votes Were Cast in Allegheny County Than in All of Mississippi in 1920 ANALYSES EDITORIAL; SENATE POWERS," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, December 18, 1926. 

"'Garvey's Mantle Has Fallen On DuBois,' Says W. H. Ferris: Former U. N. I. A. Official Lists 'Similarities' Between Pan-Africa-Garvey Meetings 'Imitation Is Sincerest Form of Flattery' Quoted As Former Critic Accepts Principles He Denounced," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, July 30, 1927.

"Pittsburgh--'The Magic City': 'Impressions OF America's Workshop'," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, July 30, 1927.

"Ferris Reviews History of Negro Leadership: Shows Renaissance Of Independent Spirit With Coming Of Marcus Garvey U. N. I. A. Carried Negro Back To Aggressiveness Of Douglas And J. M. Langston, Is Claim," *The Pittsburgh Courier, August 13, 1927. 

"New York Showers Glory On Mrs. Bethune: 'America Is Only Place Where Woman Is Queen,' Says Leader Many Presentations Are Made and Tributes Paid Well Known Leader," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, August 27, 1927.

"Ferris Tells How 'Jobs' In Washington Stagnate Race: Few Individuals Become Rich, But Only At Cost Of Their Manhood Rights ... South Is In Control, Even With Republicans In Power; More Grimkes Needed For Fight International Entertainer," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, August 27, 1927.

"Ferris Tells 'The Truth' About Washington Society," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, September 10, 1927. 

"'Church Gradually Losing Its Power,' Says Ferris, Writer Admits Negro Preacher Was 'King' Of Race From Civil War To 1915; Blames 'Jazz Age' Says Time Was When People Paid Admissions to Hear Bishops and Ministers, But No More," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, October 29, 1927.

"'Church Has Kept Negro Moral,' DECLARES W. H. FERRIS: Writer Sees Need For Bigger Churches, But Urges Caution Lest Debt Obscure Religion Praises Negro Preacher As First to Urge Masses to Support Their Own Leaders," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, November 5, 1927.

"Garvey, DuBois and Others: 'African Abroad' Author Appraises Ovington's Portraits And Gives His Opinion of the Outstanding Subjects Discussed," *The New York Amsterdam News*, December 7, 1927. 

"Dr. Julia P. Coleman Head of Women's Clubs of Metropolis," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, December 24, 1927.

"Ferris Surveys "The West Indian In America": Writer Says West Indians Were Popular With Americans Before Coming Of M. Garvey Points Out West Indians Were Leaders In Religion and Politics; Socially Popular," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, January 29, 1928.

"'Unity Between Americans And West Indians': Writer Pleads No Progress Possible Without Two Groups Joining Hands Against Foe Says 'Nowhere In World Does Black Man Have 100% White Man's Chance'--Not Even In Africa," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, February 4, 1928.

"What Did The Negro Get Out Of The World War: 'Not Much,' Says Ferris Recalls Days Before the Call to Arms and Then-- When the Boys Came Home," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, March 17, 1298. 

"Observations: THe Trend of Current Thought and Discussion The Blevins Case," *The Chicago Defender*, March 31, 1928. 

"Native Africans In Harlem Buy Home," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, March 31, 1928.

"Ferris Scores Obscenity In Our Literature," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, March 31, 1928. 

"Saw The Sacred Alligator Which Drank Gin: Fannie R. Givens, Artist, Has Visited 17 European Countries and Only Woman to Be Carried 1,000 Miles to Interior of Liberia," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, February 16, 1929. 

"Bishop Approves Hoover's Two-Party System In South," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, April 20, 1929.

"'Fall In Love With Modern ideas,' Bishop Tells Louisville Ministers: 'Old Time Methods Tabooed' Ministers Appluad When Prelates Scores Old Methods," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, May 11, 1929.

"Kentuckians Plan Legislative Fight," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, August 3, 1929.

"Thousands Attend Lexington Fair on 'LOUISVILLE DAY': The Menelek Club Covers Itself With Glory," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, September 7, 1929. 

"'BLACK MANHATTAN' AND THE NEGRO LITERATURE': William H. Ferris Contends That the Negro's Self Assertion Since 1915 Has Caused Miracle In Harlem," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, November 8, 1930.

"BISHOP'S ACTS ARE VETOED BY COUNCIL: 3 Pastors Removed by Heard Reinstated," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, June 17, 1933. 

"Kentucky A.M.E. Conference Votes Favoring Temparance," *The Chicago Defender*, October 21, 1933. 

"Girl, Nine, Gives Recital At Ky. State," *Atlanta Daily World*, July 16, 1934. 

"ZION PRELATES EULOGIZE BISHOP CLEMENT: Noted Churchman Is Honored In Death By Vast Crowd," *The Chicago Defender*, November 3, 1934. 

"ZION CHURCHMEN EULOGIZE BISHOP CLEMENT: USEFUL CAREER OF RACE LEADER IS ENDED IN DEATH Vast Crowd of Sorrowing People Attend Funeral of Distinguished Churchman and Citizen BURIED," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, November 3, 1934.

"Bishop Walls In Address At Conference," *The Chicago Defender*, June 29, 1935.

"Brown Chapel In Cincinnati Ends Great Financial Drive," *The Chicago Defender*, July 13, 1935.

"Cincinnati Church Raises $2,318.25 In 21 Weeks Drive: Rev. Pearle Proves Himself to Be Brilliant Pastor--Wilberforce University Graduate," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, July 13, 1935.

"'Soul Power Is Nation's Need,' Says Minister," *The Chicago Defender*, July 20, 1935.

"'Heaven Bound' Scores Hit At KY. Chautauqua," *The Chicago Defender*, August 3, 1935.

"Women Plead With The League Of Nations For Peace: 250,000 WOMEN TO SIGN PETITIONS VISITORS HAVE GAY TIME IN SMOKETOWN," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, August 17, 1935.

"Bishop Tookes Preaches For Quinn Chapel," *The Chicago Defender*, August 24, 1935.

"WALLS FLAYS MUSSOLINI; CHALLENGES A. BRISBANE IN LOUISVILLE SERMON: Militant Bishop Tells Crowd That Italy's Dictator Is 'Defiant and Flippant'" *The Chicago Defender*, September 21, 1935.

"A Reader Compares The Modern Educational System To A Ball Game", *The Pittsburgh Courier*, September 21, 1935.

"SAYS DR. WRIGHT DESERVES BISHOPRIC HONORS: WORK AT 'FORCE 'U' SHOWS WRIGHT IS PRACTICAL IDEALIST Writer Wonders If Church Will Reward This Capable Financier, Constructive Religious and Educational Leader CANDIDATE," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, September 21, 1935.

"Bishop Gregg Stirs Kentucky Confab Group," *The Chicago Defender, October 26, 1935.

"Bishop Tookes Holds Kentucky Conference," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, NOvember 2, 1935.

*PERRY HOWARD MAKES SPEECH IN LOUISVILLE: Tells Of Race Progress In The United States," *The Chicago Defender*, November 9, 1935. 

"RACE MAN ELECTED TO KENTUCKY LEGISLATURE: C. W. ANDERSON, JR., FIRST ELECTED IN STATE'S HISTORY," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, November 16, 1935.

"Cincinnati Churches In Union Meet," *The Chicago Defender*, December 28, 1935.

"HOME FOLKS PAY TRIBUTE TO ANDERSON: Louisville Solon Honored At Banquet," *The Chicago Defender*, January 11, 1936.

"OHIO AME ZION CHURCH HOLDS 21ST SESSION: Brilliant Sermons Mark Conference," *The Chicago Defender*, July 4, 1936.

"OHIO A. M. E. ZION ANNUAL CONFERENCE EXCEEDS ASSESSMENTS: Bishop P. A. Wallace Presides With Dignity--Urges Ministers to Continue Splendid Work For Humanity--Three Bishops Present At Opening," *the Pittsburgh Courier*, July 4, 1936. 

"Zion Evangelist Begins National Campaign," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, October 17, 1936. 

"Guests From Five States At Wedding Of Kentucky Pair," *The Pittsburgh Courier, December 12, 1936.

"Hi-Lights Of Alpha Kappa Alpha Convention: Intelligentsia Of Race Attend 19th Boule In Louisville, Ky.," *The Chicago Defender*, January 9, 1937.

"AMEZ Conference Raises Over $6,000: Youngstown Is Host To 22nd Annual Convention," *The Chicago Defender*, July 3, 1937.

"African Orthodox Church Splits Into Two Factions," *The Chicago Defender*, September 11, 1937.

"American Labor Party Makes Bid For VOters," *The Chicago Defender*, October 30, 1937. 

"Musician Is Genius: 12 -Year - Old Pianist Gives Recital," *The New York Amsterdam News*, November 20, 1937. 

"A.M.E. Zion Confab Ends In Winfall, N.C.," *The Chicago Defender*, December 11, 1937.

"TRACE GROWTH OF ELIZABETH CITY NORMAL: Journalist Gives Impression Of North Carolina Institution," *The Chicago Defender*, December 25, 1937.

"Note Miraculous Growth of Elizabeth City Normal, Now A Million Dollar Educator," *Atlanta Daily World*, January 9, 1938.

"$7,000, RECORD FUND IS RAISED AT C.M.E. MEET: 23rd Ohio Conference In Session At Columbus Proves Success," *The Chicago Defender*, June 25, 1928.

"BISHOP WALLS CONFERENCE SPEAKER: Nearly $2,000 Raised for General Claims By During Year By Indiana A. M. E. Zion Churches", *The Pittsburgh Courier*, July 2, 1938.

"Review of *The Gloy of Womanhood*," *The Call*, November 4, 1938. 

"Womanhood Glorified by N.Y. Doctor," *Norfolk Journal and Guide*, November 19, 1938. 

"72nd Virginia A.M.E. Zionist Meet Closes In Sunbury, N.C.," *The Chicago Defender*, December 3, 1938.

"Conclude Annual Conference Of North Carolina A.M.E'S," *The Chicago Defender*, December 10, 1938.

"Once A Waiter--DR. A. Clayton Powell: Arose To Fame As The Greatest Church Builder In The Nation," *The Chicago Defender*, February 11, 1939.

"Att'y Anderson, Jr., Gets National Bar Ass'n Post," *Atlanta Daily World*, February 14, 1939.

"Association Of College Women, Deans Meet," *The Chicago Defender*, April 15, 1939.

"Rabbi Gentleman Says Struggle Is Not Between Jews And Arabs But Jews An Dictatorship In Men's Day Message," *Atlanta Daily World*, 1939.

"Louisville Municipal," *The Chicago Defender*, June 17, 1939.

"African Orthodox Church Ends 19th Synod in N.Y.," *New York Amsterdam News*, September 9, 1939. 

"NEW JERSEY PREACHER STIRS N. C. CONFERENCE: "LIFE A CONFLICT," SAYS DR. HARDGE Says the Faithful May Weep but Joy, Is Promised in the Morning," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, December 30, 1939.

"Bishop Wallace Says Dictators Trying To Run The World Without God: Says Humanity Must Realize That It Actually Needs God", *The Pittsburgh Courier*, January 27, 1940.

"Rev. T. S. Harten To 'Build A City' In New Jersey," *The Call*, February 2, 1940. 

"See Boom In N.J. Race Town In Near Future," *The Chicago Defender*, February 3, 1940.

"NEW YORK PASTOR TELLS STORY OF RICHARD ALLEN: Dr. J. A. Portlock Thrills Bethel A.M.E. Church Congregation," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, February 24, 1940. 

"Urban League Women's Auxiliary Sponsors Tea," *The Chicago Defender*, March 16, 1940. 

"Bishop Humphrey Honored At Banquet," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, April 6, 1940.

"N. Y. 'MICKEY FINN' EXPOSE CREATES STIR: Hold Tavern Proprietor, Bartender To Face Criminal Charges," *The Chicago Defender*, April 13, 1940.

"BISHOP WALLACE SHOWS NEED OF CHURCH TODAY: PRELATE PLEADS FOR TRUE FAITH IN JESUS CHRIST Church Members Warned To Not Become Entangled Or Absorbed By Worldliness In Times Like These," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, April 13, 1940.

"10 MINISTERS IN RACE FOR ZION BISHOPRIC: 480 DELEGATES ANSWER ROLL CALL FIRST DAY Clergymen Seek Post Made Vacant By Bishop's Death BULLETIN," *The Chicago Defender*, May 11, 1940.

"A.M.E.Z.'S PICK BISHOP AND GENERAL OFFICERS: PLAN TO REDISTRICT IS TURNED DOWN Reports Of All Prelates Meet With Approval Of Church Body," *The Chicago Defender*, May 18, 1940.

"Judge Scott Housed In New Office," *The Chicago Defender*, June 8, 1940.

"Former Boxer Succeeds Garvey As UNIA Head," *The Chicago Defender*, August 31, 1940.

"Bishop Alleyne Preaches Anniversary Sermon: Philadelphia Church Closses Golden Jubilee Celebration Under Leadership of Rev. J. Timothy Boddie," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, November 2, 1940.

"ALABAMA PASTOR TO SUCCEED DR. L. K. WILLIAMS: Three Pastors And Churches Participate To End Rally Washington Pastor and members Travel to Philadelphia to Help Elaborate Program--$1,411.87 Raised in Two Months PASTOR," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, November 16, 1940.

"Bishop Wallace Closes Virginia Conference," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, December 7, 1940.

"Speaker Claims 'Hitler Can't Stop God' Before Young People's Congress: Dr. W. O. Carrington Sees Democracy as the Only Political System that Permits Self-Government," *The Pittsburgh Courier*, January 11, 1941.

"BISHOPS URGE RACE SHARE IN DEFENSE PROGRAM: FOUR A.M.E. BISHOPS AT ZION COUNCIL Bishops of Two Great Methodist Bodies Join In Movement For Greater Participation In America's Defense Program--Forward Steps Made in Fraternal Relations Between Bodies," *The Pittsburgh Courrier*, Janaury 18, 1941.

"Ethiop Unit To Convene On July 23," *The Chicago Defender", *The Chicago Defender*, July 12, 1941.

"UNIA In Garvey Mmemorial Service," *The Chicago Defender*, August 2, 1941.
